Questions about marriage and children were again included , as they had been at the 1911 and 1951 Censuses . 
The former had asked for marriage details for all married women , the latter for all married women under the age of 50 . 
The 1961 Census questions related to all women who were or had been married , and so repeated the enquiry made fifteen years earlier by the 1946 Family Census conducted on behalf of the Royal Commission on Population . 
The questions about children were the same as in 1951 , except that they extended to all women who were or had been married . 
It was not regarded as practicable within the limits of the census to include particulars about the date of birth of each child , as had been done in the specialised enquiry for the Royal Commission . 
The innovation at the 1961 Census , though the Family Census had previously included the question , was the date of termination of the first or only marriage . 
This enables statistical use to be made of their experience as regards duration of marriage and number of children in the case of women whose first or only marriage was terminated by widowhood or divorce after the end of their child bearing life . 
This is particularly important in estimating the trends in the size and pattern of families for successive generations over as long a period as possible , as the proportion of widows predominates in the higher age groups . 
In Wales and Monmouthshire the question on the ability to speak Welsh was included as previously . 
The question was first asked in 1891 , and was given its present form in 1931 . 
Each census since the first in 1801 has included questions about housing and households . 
In 1961 the scope of the question was wider than before , because of the great use of the data to the Ministry of Housing and Local Government and to local authorities . 
As before , the record made during the enumeration lists all buildings , residential premises and temporary places of abode , and all households occupying them , as the basis of the enumeration is the household schedule . 
The number of structurally separate dwellings ( that is , houses or flats or other quarters built or adapted for separate occupation and forming a private and structurally separate unit ) was obtained as previously , together with the number of households with sole occupation or sharing such dwellings , and the number of living rooms occupied by each household . 
In 1961 the enumerators were asked to note whether the building was wholly or partly residential , and whether it contained one or more dwellings . 
In 1951 questions had been included to throw light on housing conditions . 
In 1961 the questions about piped water supply , water closet and fixed bath were repeated as before , with the addition of a new question about hot water supply ; the 1951 questions about cooking stove or range and kitchen sink were restricted to households sharing dwellings . 
A new question asked about housing tenure , whether the accommodation occupied by each household was held by them as owner-occupiers ; occupied in connection with employment or as part of business premises ; rented from a Council ( or New Town Corporation ) or a private landlord ( if so , whether furnished or unfurnished ) ; or occupied on some other terms . 
The analysis of private households by size and various characteristics of their members has become increasingly important . 
Previously , while visitors were left out of this analysis it was not considered sufficiently important to attempt the task of bringing in the members away from home on Census night , which would be very laborious in the absence of information given at their place of usual residence . 
But the need for a more accurate distribution of households by size as usually constituted had become more important by 1961 , and accordingly a new question was introduced , for private households only , asking for particulars of persons usually living in the household who were absent on Census night . 
The information collected under this head will not affect the main count of population numbers , but will be used solely in the analysis of households by size and other characteristics . 
Sample . 
— At an early stage of the census preparations consideration was given to possibilities of reducing the amount of clerical work before the census results could be mechanically processed , and the various topics for inclusion were examined to see whether full analysis was required , as previously , or whether sample analysis would serve their main purpose . 
It appeared that a 10 per cent sample analysis would give adequate results for many subjects , notably the analysis of the working population . 
The sampling fraction chosen , 10 per cent , was selected partly on grounds of convenience but mostly on an assessment of the likely reliability of figures in the projected tabulations , and of the margins that might be tolerated . 
The use of sampling in this field reduces the total numbers of staff required in the Census Office as well as speeding up the production of the census results . 
The sampling method was introduced at the enumeration stage and the effect of this was to reduce the number of questions for nine tenths of the people . 
Nine out of ten private householders received a form with fewer questions than previously this century . 
The tenth received a form not much larger in content than the 1951 questionnaire . 
In other establishments , ( hotels , hospitals , ships , etc. , ) the extra questions were asked of every tenth person . 
The sample was so arranged as to be fully representative over the country as a whole , and everyone had the same possibility of being included . 
The questions chosen for sample treatment were those relating to occupation , employment , place of work , status in employment education , scientific and technological qualifications change of usual residence or duration of stay at present usual residence , and persons usually resident in private households who were absent on Census night . 
Order-in-Council. — In accordance with the procedure set out in the Census Act , 1920 , a draft Order-in-Council , prescribing the date of the census the persons by whom and with respect to whom the returns were to be made , and the substance of the questions to be asked , was laid before Parliament on the 6th April , 1960 . 
The draft Order was explained fully in the House of Commons and was accepted without opposition ; at the same time the House approved the inclusion of questions about the first or only marriage where this had terminated , about housing tenure , education , scientific and technological qualifications change of usual residence in past year or duration of stay at present usual residence . 
These questions required the affirmative procedure because they are not already specifically authorised by the Census Act , 1920 . 
There was a general debate about the draft Order in the House of Lords on the 1st June , 1960 , following which the inclusion of these questions was agreed to . 
The Census Order , 1960 , ( S.I . 
1960 No. 1062 , ) was made on 23rd June , 1960 . 
The second schedule containing the substance of the questions is given in Appendix C. 
Regulations . 
— The detailed machinery for the taking of the census and the precise forms of return to be used in all cases were prescribed in the Census Regulations , 1960 , ( S.I . 
1960 No. 1175 , ) which were signed by the Minister of Health on the 11th July , 1960 , and laid before Parliament on 18th July . 
There was no discussion of them in either House . 
Local Organization . 
— ( a ) Census Officers . 
As at every previous census since 1841 , the local arrangements for the enumeration were based on the area covered by the local registrar of births and deaths , with some modifications of area so that generally the census districts were limited to a maximum of 100 enumeration districts ( that is , approximately 75,000 population ) . 
Thus , there were 1,315 census districts for the 1,184 registration sub-districts . 
In the main the registrars acted as Census Officers ; the 1,315 Census Officers comprised 1,093 registrars of births and deaths , 137 other registration officers and 85 others appointed as required . 
Superintendent registrars were appointed to act as Census Advisory Officers in 115 cases , mainly in the larger centres of population , to deal with enquiries about the census from any quarter , and to recruit and instruct in their general duties a sufficient number of enumerators for the area . 
The local duties comprised the checking of the boundaries and contents of enumeration districts set out in the draft plans prepared by the central Census Office , the selection , appointment and instruction of enumerators , control of the enumeration and dealing with enquiries or difficulties from the public . 
( b ) numerators . 
The persons appointed to deliver and collect the forms are traditionally called " enumerators " . 
They also compile an enumeration record of their district , with the provisional count of numbers and a list of all buildings , residential premises and households . 
The completeness of the census count depends very largely upon the assiduity with which the enumerator searches for all residential premises and any temporary dwellings , caravans , boats , etc. , where anyone may spend Census night , and in the confidence which he can inspire in the ordinary householder that the census is necessary and the answers kept secret . 
There is far more in the job than mere issue and collection of forms . 
The identification of buildings by type , of structurally separate dwellings and private households is a complex process dependent upon detailed instructions . 
The census schedules themselves have to be fully understood so that advice can be given to people in difficulty . 
But above all the work requires tact and courtesy , so that the returns may be secured from the public without friction or offence . 
Instructions for the recruitment of enumerators were sent out in early January . 
The power of appointment was delegated to the local Census Officers , as it was not practicable to exercise central control . 
Guidance was given , and advice or assistance was available in the event of difficulty . 
To widen the field of recruitment as far as possible , a general press notice was issued , which was very well covered by the local press and notifications were sent to Government Departments , to local authorities and local education authorities . 
Arrangements were made for close co-operation with the managers of local Employment Exchanges of the Ministry of Labour , and , in particular , that Census Advisory Officers and Census Officers should ascertain whether the managers had suitable people to put forward for possible appointment from persons registered with , or applying to , them for employment . 
As it was essential to select persons who would be willing and available to carry out the duties some weeks ahead , in the main selection was confined to persons able to undertake spare time duties , or housewives and retired persons . 
Some 69,000 enumerators were appointed in England and Wales . 
As previously many were local government officers and civil servants . 
Applications for appointment were received in great numbers in nearly all urban areas , but in some rural areas there was difficulty in making up the numbers required . 
Instructions were given that as far as practicable no enumerator should be assigned to a district in which he was known by the residents , as people might be reluctant that the confidential information on a census schedule should be made available to an enumerator personally known to them . 
But this was not always possible , particularly in rural areas . 
All enumerators signed an undertaking that they understood the nature of their duties and their obligation to keep secret the information collected , and that they were aware of the heavy penalties for any breach of confidence . 
( c ) The Enumeration . 
The basis of the enumeration was , as previously , that forms should be completed for every private household , and for every hospital , hotel or other similar establishment under arrangements made by the persons in charge . 
The normal private household is the family type with husband , wife and children , but persons living alone or a group of two or more persons living together also constituted households for the census . 
Where accommodation is sub-let and the occupants live on their own , they would be counted as a household , but persons living with a household who usually have at least one meal a day provided by that household while in residence are treated as belonging to that household . 
MINISTRY OF HEALTH DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH FOR SCOTLAND DRUG ADDICTION Report of the Interdepartmental Committee INTERDEPARTMENTAL COMMITTEE ON DRUG ADDICTION REPORT 
To The Rt . 
Hon. J. Enoch Powell , M.B.E. , M.P. , Minister of Health . 
The Rt . 
Hon. John Maclay , C.M.G. , M.P. , Secretary of State for Scotland . 
Appointment 
1 . 
We were appointed on 3rd June , 1958 , with the following terms of reference : 
" to review , in the light of more recent developments , the advice given by the Departmental Committee on Morphine and Heroin Addiction in 1926 ; to consider whether any revised advice should also cover other drugs liable to produce addiction or to be habit-forming ; to consider whether there is a medical need to provide special , including institutional , treatment outside the resources already available , for persons addicted to drugs ; and to make recommendations , including proposals for any administrative measures that may seem expedient , to the Minister of Health and the Secretary of State for Scotland " . 
Procedure 
2 . 
We have held eleven meetings . 
We decided as a first step to seek information from a number of organisations and persons having an interest in the questions before us and at a later stage we arranged for publication of a press notice inviting anybody interested to submit representations . 
We compiled a list of the points which we thought were of importance , but we made it clear that the replies need not be confined to these particular items . 
As a general rule we did not ask for oral evidence , though we found it an advantage in certain instances . 
Appendix 1 gives a list of the bodies and persons consulted . 
The Department of Health for Scotland , the Home Office and the Ministry of Health submitted evidence to us ; officers of these Departments attended our meetings and have given us valuable assistance . 
Interim Report 
3 . 
On 23rd November , 1959 , we submitted an Interim Report . 
This dealt with two questions which arose from our terms of reference and which had been brought specially to our notice . 
First , we were asked to examine the risks attending the abuse of carbromal and bromvaletone and preparations containing these substances . 
The Poisons Board had already considered this problem but , in the absence of sufficient evidence that these compounds were widely abused , had not recommended them for control as " poisons " under the Pharmacy and Poisons Act , 1933 . 
4 . 
On examination of the evidence it became clear to us that carbromal and bromvaletone were examples of a number of drugs on sale to the public which were not appropriate for restriction to supply on prescription under the Dangerous Drugs Act , 1951 , or the Therapeutic Substances Act , 1956 , and had not so far been recommended for control as poisons . 
5 . 
We recommended that , in general , any drug or pharmaceutical preparation which has an action on the central nervous system and is liable to produce physical or psychological deterioration should be confined to supply on prescription and that an independent expert body should be responsible for advising which substances should be so controlled . 
6 . 
As an interim and urgent measure , the Secretary of State for the Home Department , on the recommendation of the Poisons Board , has made Rules under which certain substances having an action on the central nervous system are included in a new list of substances which may be sold by retail only on the prescription of a duly qualified medical practitioner , registered dentist , registered veterinary surgeon or registered veterinary practitioner . 
7 . 
We are glad to note the action that has been taken and we hope that arrangements will be made to ensure that , as other preparations affecting the central nervous system become available , they too will be brought to the notice of the Poisons Board , or such other advisory body as may in due course be appointed for the purpose , to consider whether there are sufficient grounds for restricting any of them also to supply on prescription . 
8 . 
The second part of our Interim Report was devoted to anaesthetists who become addicted to the gases and vapours which they use in the course of their professional duties . 
We ascertained that the incidence of this irregularity was very small indeed . 
However , over a period of eleven years , patients ' lives had been endangered in two known instances . 
9 . 
We were assured by our expert witnesses on this subject that , with the apparatus at present to hand , the preliminary sniffing of the gases immediately before administering them to a patient was a recognised and necessary precaution . 
We accepted this . 
10 . 
In view of the heavy and direct responsibility carried by every anaesthetist we were convinced that anyone addicted to the inhalation of gases and vapours should never be entrusted with their administration . 
Intervention in the first instance , we thought , should be by the anaesthetist 's professional colleagues . 
The ethical questions arising have been discussed between Ministers and representatives of the medical profession and we are glad to see that a memorandum embodying the agreed arrangements was sent to hospital authorities in England and Wales on 27th May , 1960 , and that one was sent to hospital authorities in Scotland on 18th August , 1960 . 
Report of the Departmental Committee on Morphine and Heroin Addiction ( the " Rolleston Committee " ) 1926 
11 . 
The main tasks of the Rolleston Committee , whose advice we were invited to review , were to advise on : 
( a ) the circumstances , if any , in which the supply of morphine and heroin , and preparations containing these substances , to persons addicted to those drugs might be regarded as medically advisable ; 
( b ) the precautions which medical practitioners administering or prescribing morphine or heroin should adopt to avoid abuse and any administrative measures that seemed expedient to secure observance of those precautions . 
12 . 
Through the system of records and inspection then in operation cases were brought to the notice of the Home Office at that time in which exceptionally large quantities of morphine and heroin had been supplied to particular practitioners or prescribed for individual cases . 
On further enquiry it was ascertained that sometimes the doctor had ordered these drugs simply to satisfy the craving of the addict ; in some instances there was a doubt whether the supply was for { 6bona fide medical treatment ; in other cases the drugs had been prescribed in large quantities either to persons previously unknown to the practitioner or to a patient receiving supplies elsewhere ; occasionally , large supplies had been used by practitioners for self-administration . 
13 . 
It appeared then that in some circumstances dangerous drugs were being supplied in contravention of the intention of Parliament that a doctor should be authorised to supply drugs only so far as was necessary for the practice of his profession . 
Before deciding on measures to secure proper observance of the law , it was felt necessary to have some authoritative medical advice on various aspects of the treatment of addiction , the use of dangerous drugs in medical treatment , and the action which might be taken where a doctor appeared to have misused his authority to possess and supply them . 
14 . 
The Rolleston Committee 's recommendations in 1926 on the supply of morphine and heroin to addicts to these drugs and on the use of drugs in treatment are discussed later in this Report . 
They have , up to now , been included in the Memorandum on the Dangerous Drugs Act and Regulations which is prepared by the Home Office for the information of doctors and dentists . 
15 . 
As a result of the Rolleston Committee 's proposals for administrative measures , amendments were made to the Dangerous Drugs Regulations in 1926 to the following effect : 
( 1 ) Provision was made for the constitution of a tribunal to which the Secretary of State could refer cases in which , in his opinion , there was reason to think that a duly qualified practitioner might be supplying , administering or prescribing drugs either for himself or other persons otherwise than as required for purposes of medical treatment . 
( 2 ) The Secretary of State was empowered , on the recommendation of a tribunal , to withdraw a doctor 's authority to possess and supply dangerous drugs and to direct that such a doctor , or a doctor convicted of an offence under the Act , should not issue prescriptions for dangerous drugs . 
( 3 ) It was made clear that prescriptions should only be given by a duly qualified medical practitioner when required for purposes of medical treatment . 
( 4 ) It was made an offence for a person who was receiving treatment from one doctor to obtain a supply of dangerous drugs from a second doctor without disclosing that he was being supplied by the first doctor . 
( 5 ) All doctors , dentists and veterinary surgeons were required to keep appropriate records of all dangerous drugs obtained . 
With the exception of provisions relating to tribunals , which we discuss later , all these amendments remain in the current regulations . 
The changed situation 
16 . 
In the thirty-four years since the Rolleston Committee reported there have been developments in two directions which are of interest to our own Committee . 
On the one hand pharmaceutical research has produced a number of new analgesic drugs , many of which are capable of producing addiction . 
Some of these have been derived from opium and others have been produced synthetically . 
It is possible that many more addiction-producing drugs will be produced . 
A potent analgesic which is not addiction-producing has so far not been forthcoming . 
We have had to direct our attention to the question whether these drugs should be used with the same precautions and subjected to the same control as the morphine and heroin considered by the Rolleston Committee . 
17 . 
The second development has been in the methods of treatment of drug addiction . 
The withdrawal from addicts of the drug to which they are addicted has been the subject of experiment in several countries and particularly in the United States of America . 
These experiments have included the substitution of newer addiction-producing drugs and their subsequent gradual withdrawal , and also the use of other new drugs , such as tranquillizers , for the alleviation of the withdrawal symptoms . 
It has therefore been necessary to consider whether there are still circumstances in which the continued administration of dangerous drugs , even under the conditions strictly defined by the Rolleston Committee , can be justified . 
18 . 
We therefore had to consider : 
( 1 ) whether any new advice could be brought effectively to the notice of doctors and dentists ; 
( 2 ) whether the principles underlying the advice could be emphasised clearly to avoid misinterpretation ; 
( 3 ) whether any action was necessary to prevent the unjustifiable prescribing of dangerous drugs by some doctors ; 
( 4 ) whether there was any way of preventing the unjustified use of dangerous drugs by any doctor for himself or for members of his family ; 
( 5 ) the suggestion made in certain international organizations that Governments might set up special institutions for the treatment , care and rehabilitation of addicts on a compulsory basis . 
19 . 
In addition there has been an increase in the use by doctors and by the general public of drugs liable to cause habituation . 
Because they do not give rise to ill-effects substantially the same as , or analogous to , those produced by morphine or cocaine they are not within the scope of international agreements . 
We have considered this development . 
Definitions adopted 
20 . 
From the outset we felt it necessary to have a clear and consistent idea of the phenomena confronting us . 
We therefore adopted the following definitions , realising that they are somewhat arbitrary and may need to be revised in the light of increasing knowledge . 
Drug Addiction is a state of periodic or chronic intoxication produced by the repeated consumption of a drug ( natural or synthetic ) ; its characteristics include : 
( 1 ) an overpowering desire or need ( compulsion ) to continue taking the drug and to obtain it by any means , 
( 2 ) a tendency to increase the dose , though some patients may remain indefinitely on a stationary dose , 
( 3 ) a psychological and physical dependence on the effects of the drug , 
( 4 ) the appearance of a characteristic abstinence syndrome in a subject from whom the drug is withdrawn , 
( 5 ) an effect detrimental to the individual and to society . 
Drug Habituation ( habit ) is a condition resulting from the repeated consumption of a drug . 
This arrangement has proved helpful , particularly when the teacher of the class takes both sections . 
It is still all too common to find that two or more teachers have to share the instruction of the same class . 
While the staffing position may occasionally make this inevitable , it is rarely a satisfactory measure and should be avoided wherever possible , especially with first-year classes . 
Modern language specialists have as part of their training to spend a considerable period in the country whose language they are principally engaged in teaching . 
It is encouraging to note that a commendable number of teachers continue to go abroad regularly in order to further their own knowledge of the language and to maintain contacts with the country . 
More teachers than formerly now complete the requirements of residence abroad for a second or even a third language ; the recent reduction in the period of residence required of honours graduates for recognition in a second language is undoubtedly making this easier to accomplish . 
Foreign assistants ( French , German , Swiss , Austrian , Spanish , and Italian ) are being employed in increasing numbers throughout the country . 
This session there are in all 126 such assistants . 
Through their own personal knowledge and experience these young assistants can do much to bring to life the study of their home country and they can give the pupils valuable practice in understanding and speaking the foreign language . 
They are usually students , not trained teachers , and consequently their work is most effective when they receive adequate help and guidance from the regular teachers . 
A few exchanges have also been arranged between Scottish and foreign practising teachers and have , on the whole , been very successful . 
Accommodation and Equipment 
Accommodation , although still restricted in some schools , has mainly been adequate and with the building of new schools and the modernization of others there has recently been a marked improvement in teaching conditions throughout the country . 
The majority of teachers now have a room of their own , in which they can — and frequently do — develop an appropriate background as an aid to their instruction by the use of wall pictures , posters , maps , models , reference books , and the like . 
The number and variety of wall-maps provided is , however , disappointing . 
The importance for the development of good oral work of allocating to modern language teachers rooms which are relatively free from outside noise and disturbance has not always been sufficiently appreciated . 
Both the quality and the supply of text-books have improved greatly of late . 
In particular , there has been a welcome increase in the provision of supplementary reading material . 
The co-operation of educational publishers in meeting the demand for more modern and more attractive books is much appreciated . 
Library facilities in modern languages vary greatly from school to school . 
In some schools only a few dictionaries and reference books are available , while in others there is an ample supply of suitable books . 
Particularly in some of the new schools , a stock of attractive books likely to appeal to the younger pupils has been built up in addition to the more usual works for the older pupils . 
The use of dictionaries with simple definitions in the foreign language seems to be growing and is to be recommended . 
A number of schools now spend part of their library allocation on subscriptions to worthwhile foreign magazines and have found that these prove both useful and popular . 
Most secondary schools possess various teaching aids such as wireless sets , record-players , tape-recorders , and film or film-strip projectors . 
Many modern language teachers make occasional use of these aids , but only a few use them systematically as an integral part of their work . 
Courses in Modern Languages 
Syllabuses for Certificate courses are at present being re-organised because of the forthcoming introduction of the new Ordinary grade of the Scottish Certificate of Education . 
Until now , in far too many schools , there has been little differentiation between the language courses planned for the ablest sections and those followed by the other sections . 
Where a difference has been made , it has often been no more than that the lowest sections in any given year have been allowed to proceed at a rather slower speed but with no modification of the content of the course or of the methods used . 
It seems unlikely that schools will meantime make fundamental changes in the modern language syllabuses designed for their ablest pupils , but already more courses are being planned specifically to meet the needs of those pupils who , at least in the first instance , are unlikely to pursue the study of a language to the highest level . 
This diversification of syllabuses is welcome . 
It can be carried out all the more easily now that few schools set a common examination for all the classes in each year and there is in consequence no longer any necessity for all groups to attempt to cover exactly the same work in the same time . 
If more suitable courses are developed , it is to be hoped that many of those pupils who at present are discouraged by their inability to keep abreast of the work set may find it possible to continue their language study with profit . 
In some junior secondary schools and departments the syllabus has been essentially the same as if the pupils were to become candidates for the Scottish Leaving Certificate examination and it has proved much too difficult for the pupils concerned . 
In a number of others , however , there has been an encouraging effort to develop non-examination courses which would be more in keeping with the needs and interests of the pupils . 
Much has been done to awaken interest in the foreign country . 
The approach to the language itself has been lively , good use being made of activity methods and of whatever ancillary aids were available . 
The main emphasis has been placed on learning to understand the spoken and written language and to speak it simply but naturally . 
The results in classes following such courses suggest that further experiment along these and similar lines would prove rewarding . 
It is possible that some of the pupils in these classes may continue at school and sit the Ordinary grade of the Scottish Certificate of Education . 
The type of course they have been following should form a sound basis for Ordinary grade studies provided the pupils have the necessary linguistic ability to proceed to the examination . 
The Work of the Schools 
If one considers as a whole the work done in modern languages in Scottish schools during the last few years , there is no doubt that the most significant advance has been in the field of understanding by ear and speaking the foreign language . 
This does not mean that there is no room for further improvement , but certainly much has already been accomplished . 
The progress in this aspect of language learning is most noticeable in the ready understanding and willing response of pupils in the early years of both junior and senior secondary schools and again in the fluency and confidence with which some of the pupils from the highest classes express themselves when they go abroad and in their general ability to profit from these visits . 
On the other hand , the most disappointing part of the course in a considerable number of schools is the period preceding the Scottish Leaving Certificate examination . 
This is probably due to two factors . 
In the first place , many pupils have initially been pushed on too rapidly , with the result that much of the basic work has not been adequately consolidated and the weaknesses become more evident as the course proceeds . 
In the second place , many teachers are not convinced that the methods they have been using in the early years can lead to good examination results , and they therefore discard them in favour of more traditional methods . 
In consequence of this abrupt change , much of the valuable work done in the first two years is lost and the results obtained are generally far from commensurate with the effort expended by both teachers and pupils . 
This is fortunately not true of all schools . 
Where there has been adequate consolidation and development of the work has been uninterrupted throughout the course , the pupils have shown that the examination is well within their reach and have in addition usually developed a genuine interest in both the language and the country . 
In order to give a more detailed appraisal of the work done in modern language courses , it is convenient to consider separately the different facets of language study . 
Nevertheless it must be emphasized that , if language teaching is to be successful , there can be no question of dividing up the work into rigid compartments . 
It is essential that all activities should be closely integrated so that the language always remains a living entity . 
As has already been indicated , there have been significant advances in the oral and aural aspects of language teaching in the early years of the course . 
The initial training in pronunciation is usually carefully given and practised . 
Syllabification and the typical intonation of the foreign language , however , are rarely taught with equal thoroughness , so that what is said often sounds less convincing than it otherwise would . 
Instruction in many schools is , in the early stages , based on the regular use of the spoken language in class and on oral practice of common vocabulary and speech patterns . 
By the end of the second year , pupils in these schools show a pleasing ability to understand the spoken language and some confidence in speaking it within the limits of their naturally restricted vocabulary . 
These results are all the more praiseworthy because it is in these early years that the teachers frequently have to contend with very large numbers of pupils in each class . 
In the later years the pupils continue to develop their understanding of the spoken language and seem to find this one of the most enjoyable parts of their language work . 
Sometimes too much time is spent on aural comprehension as a separate activity , but more and more teachers are discarding this practice since they have realized that , if they regularly use the spoken language in class and occasionally read aloud a short passage from the reading book or some other text , they do not require to devote much time to formal tests of aural comprehension . 
Practice in listening to new voices is given in a considerable number of schools by the use of broadcast lessons and with the help of the foreign assistant . 
These lessons are most effective if they are not isolated from the rest of the work but are followed up in later lessons , and used , for example , as a basis for conversation , vocabulary work , or free composition . 
The initial oral training is too rarely continued and developed in the later stages and many pupils do not progress beyond the standard of speech they had reached by the end of the second year . 
Many teachers feel that they can not afford the time necessary for the development of oral work , but in most cases it is not additional time which is required so much as more systematic and purposeful training in the correct use of more difficult speech forms . 
For example , the time which is so often spent on cursory and frequently inaccurate oral reading of long passages could be better applied to developing the pupils ' command of the spoken language and to bringing into regular use some of the new structures and vocabulary that occur in the various texts studied . 
Such oral practice serves to promote oral fluency and accuracy and at the same time it paves the way for a corresponding development of written work . 
Not only is bright , vigorous oral teaching beneficial in widening the knowledge of the language , but it also has a most stimulating effect on the pupils ' morale and willingness to learn . 
One other aspect of oral work — the memorization and speaking of prose and verse — tends to be considered by many teachers as quite extraneous to the normal class work . 
Some teachers , however , are making good use in the earlier years of the learning by heart of short , carefully chosen passages from the course-book or the reader or of short dramatic scenes as a means of consolidating new points of grammar , of increasing vocabulary , and of encouraging correctness and fluency of speech . 
Nevertheless , average net family income was appreciably higher in families with several children than in those with only one , many of which were incomplete families of younger parents with lower earnings , and of course with lower tax reliefs and no family allowances . 
The rise in net family incomes between 1954 and 1959 was greatest for childless couples , especially older couples ( probably because of the increase in retirement pensions ) , and somewhat greater in small than in large families . 
Expenditure and Consumption 
69 . 
Table 24 gives indices of domestic food expenditure per head and quantities purchased by older and younger couples and families with different numbers of children , with 1954 as the base year . 
The quantity index was calculated by dividing the expenditure index by a price index of the " Fisher Ideal " type , constructed for each group separately . 
The quantity index is thus confined to food purchases and takes no account of changes in free supplies . 
Compared with 1958 , the expenditure index for 1959 showed increases of 4 to 6 per cent for couples without children and those with one child , and much smaller changes for couples with several children . 
The quantity index , which has risen only slowly since 1956 , was almost unchanged in 1959 for couples with two or more children , but rose by 3 per cent in the older two-adult households and by 1-2 per cent for younger childless couples and couples with one child . 
70 . 
Table 27 gives the total domestic food expenditure and value of consumption per person per week in 1959 in households of different composition . 
Percentage standard errors of these estimates are given in Table 10 of Appendix A. All types of household spent more than in the previous year except families with three children , whose expenditure had risen sharply in 1958 . 
The increases ranged from 2s. 7d. per person per week in the residual group of households with adolescents but no children and 1s. 8d. in older two-adult households to 4d. in the families with two and with four or more children . 
The value of free food was greatest ( 1s. 2d. to 1s. 4d. per person per week ) in the five types of household containing no children , and varied between 9d. and 11d. in households with children , except in the largest families for which the average was only 5d. , as in 1958 . 
In families with three children , the slight fall in expenditure was made good by an increase in the value of free food . 
The value of consumption per person per week in 1959 ranged from 41s. 7d. for younger childless couples to 19s. 5d. in families with four or more children ; in 1958 the range was from 40s. 3d. to 19s. 1d . 
71 . 
Table 27 includes an index comparing the " price of energy " for the various types of household with that for all households in the sample . 
As in 1958 , younger couples paid some 12 1/2 per cent more per calorie than the national average , and families with four or more children 19 per cent less . 
The only substantial change was in families with three children , for whom the index declined from 91 to 88 . 
Table 27 also shows the corresponding values of an index which compares the prices paid by different types of household for the commodities constituting the average household diet in 1959 . 
For all foods the range was from 3.6 per cent above the national average in younger two-adult households to 4.8 per cent below in families with four or more children , compared with +3.6 to -5.4 per cent in 1958 and +2.8 to -2.6 per cent in 1957 . 
As with the price of energy index , the only noteworthy change was for households with three children , in which the index fell by 1.8 to 97.5 per cent of the average for all households in the sample . 
The price ranges for milk , cheese , sugar , bread and flour were very narrow . 
For most other foods younger childless couples paid the highest average prices and large families the lowest , the price gradients being steepest for carcase meat ( +7 to -7 per cent ) , " other " fish ( +8 to -11 ) , " other " vegetables ( +9 to -9 ) and beverages other than tea ( +12 to -16 ) . 
72 . 
Details of expenditure and consumption per head are given in Tables 28 and 29 . 
Most groups obtained slightly less liquid milk than in 1958 , the greatest decrease ( from 5.24 to 5.08 pints per head per week ) occurring in younger two-adult households . 
Table 25 summarizes the changes in consumption of liquid milk ( including welfare and school milk ) between 1954 and 1959 by this group and by classified households containing children or adolescents . 
Consumption by younger childless couples declined throughout this period , but that of the smaller families was maintained except for the slight fall in 1959 . 
In the largest families , particularly those containing four or more children , there was a tendency for consumption to increase between 1955 and 1957 , and thereafter to decline . 
Graduated scales of family allowances were introduced in October 1956 , and the welfare milk subsidy was reduced in April 1957 . 
Despite appreciably higher average prices for natural cheese in 1959 than in the previous year , consumption fell only slightly in most groups ; the decrease was greatest ( from 3.68 oz. to 3.20 oz. per head per week ) for younger childless couples , who transferred much of their demand to cheaper varieties . 
73 . 
All groups , except families containing three or more children , increased their expenditure on meat , but total consumption was much the same as in 1958 , although there was some replacement of beef ( which continued to be in short supply ) by mutton and lamb . 
All groups spent more on fish , and most increased their consumption , particularly of canned fish . 
Eggs were cheaper than in the previous year and consumption increased in nearly all groups despite fewer free supplies . 
74 . 
All types of household substituted margarine for butter in 1959 because of higher butter prices , but all except the largest families continued to buy more butter than margarine . 
Total consumption of butter and margarine declined only in households containing children . 
The displacement of margarine by butter in 1958 , when butter was exceptionally cheap , appears to have had some lasting effect ; the average price of butter in 1959 was higher than in 1957 , yet butter purchases in 1959 , although smaller than in 1958 , were greater than in 1957 except in families with four or more children or with adolescents but no children . 
75 . 
The smaller families and the residual groups of households containing children reduced their consumption of sugar and of preserves , but in all other types of household a decline in purchases of the one was accompanied by an increase in consumption of the other . 
76 . 
Most groups spent slightly less on potatoes than in the previous year , but consumption was maintained except in families with more than one child and in the unclassified households with children or adolescents . 
All groups except families with four or more children or with adolescents but no children consumed more fresh green vegetables , especially in the first half of the year , although most reduced their consumption of other vegetables . 
Purchases of quick-frozen peas and beans generally increased , but extremely wide group differences persisted , the averages ranging from 0.1 oz. per head per week in families with four or more children to 0.9 oz. per head in younger two-adult households ; average consumption by older couples and other wholly-adult households was 0.5 oz. per head per week . 
The two latter groups consumed much smaller quantities per head of canned vegetables and canned and bottled tomatoes than any other group , and much smaller quantities of canned and bottled fruit than younger childless couples ; in households containing children , consumption of canned fruit fell off sharply with increasing family size , but there was no regular gradation in purchases of canned vegetables and canned tomatoes . 
All types of household benefited from the improved supplies and lower prices of fresh fruit compared with 1958 , but the increase in consumption was least in families containing children . 
77 . 
Total bread consumption was virtually unchanged , although most types of household bought less white bread and more rolls and speciality breads than in 1958 . 
Most groups increased their purchases of puddings , cakes and biscuits , but obtained less flour . 
78 . 
Regression estimates of the expenditure on different commodities attributable to the adult couple and each additional child in a selected group of households consisting of childless couples ( both under 55 ) and couples with different numbers of children were given for 1952-56 in Table 39 of the Annual Report for 1956 . 
The younger childless couples are broadly comparable in age and family income with the family households , so that differences in food expenditure may be associated with the presence of children . 
The analysis has been repeated for 1957 , 1958 and 1959 , but the results will not be given { 6in extenso . 
Household food expenditure in 1959 averaged 80s. 9d. for younger couples and 92s. 10d. , 102s. 0d. , 111s. 9d. , and 126s. 3d. for two-adult households containing respectively one , two , three and four or more ( average 4.64 ) children under 15 . 
From a straight regression line fitted to these averages , the basic element in household food expenditure associated with the adult couple is estimated at 81s. 11d. and the average increment for each additional child as 9s. 11d . 
Table 26 gives similar regression estimates for previous years . 
The effects of price rises are roughly eliminated by expressing the average expenditure associated with a child as a percentage of that associated with an adult couple . 
The relative expenditure per child declined from 1952 to 1956 , but rose in 1957 when the subsidy on welfare and national dried milk was reduced ; since 1957 it has again declined . 
Most of the average expenditure associated with a child was on cereal foods , potatoes and milk ; for fresh green vegetables , fruit , cheese , fish and carcase meat , the incremental expenditure was slight . 
Energy Value and Nutrient Content 
79 . 
Table 30 shows the energy value and nutrient content of the diets of households of different composition . 
The averages showed little change compared with those for the previous year , except for generally increased intakes of vitamins C and D. Since physiological requirements vary widely with age , sex and level of activity , comparisons between families of different composition are only apposite when considered in relation to needs . 
80 . 
Estimates of the adequacy of the diets , assessed by comparison with allowances based on the recommendations of the British Medical Association , are also shown in Table 30 . 
In comparison with the previous year , changes were small except for higher estimates for vitamin C. In families with four or more children the levels of adequacy for all nutrients other than vitamin C decreased slightly . 
For this fairly small group , comparisons between different years can not be made so precisely as in groups with a defined number of children . 
In 1959 the households in this group contained slightly more children ( average 4.64 ) than in the previous year ( average 4.53 ) . 
Their total food expenditure increased less than that in other groups , and they purchased more of certain foods such as fish , poultry , eggs , canned vegetables , fresh fruit , chocolate biscuits and breakfast cereals which , in general , are more expensive sources of nutrients than those foods of which they purchased less , namely dried milk , potatoes , carcase meat , sugar , bread , flour and oatmeal and oat products . 
81 . 
In all these estimates of adequacy , the conventional allowance of 10 per cent has been made for wastage of edible food . 
The limitations of the use of arbitrary wastage factors , regardless of family size or circumstances , were pointed out , and the effect of the use of graduated wastage factors examined in the Annual Report for 1956 . 
As in previous years , the percentages in Table 30 for all nutrients decreased with increasing family size . 
The lowest estimates were for protein and calcium in families with four or more children ( 82 and 81 per cent respectively ) . 
During the ten years from 1950 to 1959 there were downward trends in the percentages for protein and calcium for all types of family and for all households , the steepest ( from 94 to 82 per cent for protein and , from 92 to 81 per cent for calcium ) occurring for the families with four or more children ; another considerable fall was from 91 to 83 per cent for protein in families with adolescents and children . 
The war damage may , however , be made good by works which include alterations and additions . 
It is a feature of the system that no cost of works payment is made until the work has been carried out , although instalments can be paid by arrangement in large projects as the work proceeds . 
The intention behind the legislation was to insure that the money should be used for reinstatement wherever it was possible and economic to do so and should be paid no sooner and no later than was necessary for this purpose . 
4 . 
If the war damage is not made good a value payment under Section 13 of the 1943 Act ( conveniently known as a " converted value payment " ) may be paid . 
This payment is equal to the amount of the difference between the March 1939 values of the property before damage and after damage , taking account in the value after damage of the value of any repairs for which the Commission have already made cost of works payments . 
This basic value payment is increased ( in current jargon , " escalated " ) by forty-five or sixty per cent . 
and interest at two and a half per cent . 
{ 6per annum from the date of damage is added to the value payment as escalated . 
This escalation was authorised by the War Damage ( Increase of Value Payments ) Order 1947 ( S.R. &O.,No. 390 ) . 
In their exercise of the discretion given by the Order to the Commission to pay up to sixty per cent. , the Commission pay the higher percentage where the owner is prevented by planning considerations from making good the damage or where he redevelops the site in a form which can not be accepted as making good with alterations and additions and so can not be the subject of a cost of works payment . 
5 . 
Other forms of war damage payment made by the Commission are highway payments , clearance payments ( for clearing remains of structures from " total loss " sites ) and church payments . 
Although differing in certain important ways from the ordinary cost of works payments , the sums paid under these heads have the common feature that they are all payments in respect of works which have been carried out . 
6 . 
The Commission received notifications that war damage had been sustained in respect of over three and a half million properties . 
They have paid over four million claims for the cost of making good war damage ( in many cases more than one claim is necessary because reinstatement is not wholly carried out in one operation ) . 
The total so far for cost of works and the analogous payments is a little over £1,000 million and the total for value payments ( of which there were about 180,000 ) is a little over £250 million . 
As against this about £200 million was collected by the Inland Revenue Department in the period 1941-46 in the form of statutory " contributions " under the War Damage Act from property owners . 
The total amount paid out by the Commission in each of the last five years is as follows : The largest amount paid out in any one year was £220 million in the year to 31st March , 1948 . 
Outstanding liability to make payments 
7 . 
Under the present system it must be left to owners of properties for which cost of works payments are appropriate to carry out the repairs or rebuilding when they wish to do so and make their claims thereafter . 
It has not been possible to make any accurate or exhaustive record of the extent of the work which still remains to be done at any particular date . 
There is a vast volume of files far too large for examination by a normal sized staff and in any case owners were not at the time of notifying damage required ( indeed , would not have been able ) to give details of the repairs that would ultimately be necessary . 
There is at present no power to compel owners to carry out the work ; nor would the Commission 's records enable them to identify the properties still in need of repair or rebuilding even if they had the power to hasten the work . 
The actual direction and execution of the work are matters for the owner and his advisers and contractors . 
The Commission 's statutory duty is to reimburse the cost incurred , so far as reasonable , and they are not a party to any of the contracts for the repair of war damage . 
It is considered probable that the cost of carrying out all the outstanding repairs would not exceed £40 million but this is a rough estimate for which no exact basis exists . 
The actual figure might be well above this or much less . 
There are , however , good reasons for believing that there are about 90 properties ( including churches , town halls , factories , etc. ) in which the cost of the outstanding works may be expected to exceed £50,000 ( a few claims may exceed this amount by a very large sum ) and that the total for those properties alone may amount to some £15 million . 
8 . 
The reasons given by owners for their failure or inability to carry out reinstatement are various . 
Uncertainty about development plans and the intentions of local authorities with regard to acquisition is a major cause ; and in some large organisations , particularly among local authorities , there has been a degree of hesitancy about the general reinstatement policy that has delayed considerably the making good of war damage . 
Some owners say they have no money for the ordinary maintenance work which would have to be carried out along with the war damage repairs . 
Where properties are held on lease with a relatively short term unexpired the repairs have in some cases been deferred because the lessee did not wish to carry out the works . 
Illness , old age or a general reluctance to having workmen on the premises has prevented a minority of householders from completing repairs . 
Whatever the reasons for delay in claiming , the Government are anxious to ensure that all who have an entitlement should be given every reasonable opportunity to secure it , and , if there is to be a closing down , they are determined that no one shall be able to complain of any lack of notice . 
Indeed , one of the prime purposes of this White Paper is to draw the attention of all interested persons , whether private owners , church authorities , local government officers or company officials responsible for the management of property , and of professional advisors in general to the need for making immediate arrangements for negotiation with the War Damage Commission about the extent of the damage , with a view to putting the outstanding war damage repairs in hand as soon as possible or , where the repairs are not to be carried out , claiming a converted value payment . 
9 . 
In addition to the payments system for land and buildings described above the War Damage Act , 1943 , provided in Part 2 for two insurance schemes administered by the Board of Trade : — 
( a ) A business chattels scheme to cover plant and machinery ; and 
( b ) A private chattels scheme to cover household and commercial chattels . 
Payments were on an insured value basis and were not related to replacement costs . 
Under ( a ) about £77 million was collected in premiums and £93 million has been paid out in claims ; under ( b ) about £16 million was collected in premiums and £116 million has been paid out in claims . 
Every householder was entitled to a certain amount of free cover ( for example up to £350 for a married man with two children ) and it is estimated that if the effect of this is allowed for the claim payments would be more in line with the premiums collected . 
In addition to the actual amounts paid on losses accrued interest at two and a half per cent . 
paid to claimants on the amounts due under both schemes has accounted for about £21 million to date . 
The date for final payments under the private chattels scheme was fixed at 14th July , 1947 , and under the business chattels scheme at 1st October , 1953 , but a certain number of claims remain unpaid ( for example because the claimant could not be traced ) and are thought to amount to about £1,120,000 plus accrued interest at two and a half per cent . 
Government Proposal to make a Final Settlement 
10 . 
The justification for the winding-up of the system at this date and the abolition of the War Damage Commission is self-evident . 
It becomes increasingly difficult , year by year , to distinguish between genuine war damage and ordinary dilapidation through lack of maintenance . 
It probably comes as a surprise to many people to know that the War Damage Commission is still in existence , that payments are still being made and , even to those who are aware that the system lingers on , to know what the possible total of outstanding liability is . 
The Government 's view is that after the passage of sixteen years since the end of the war it would be fair to require owners to begin the outstanding repairs at once and if for any reason they are unable to do so to give them the same payment ( a converted value payment , that is ) as has already been given to the many owners who applied for such a payment and satisfied the Commission that for one reason or another they were unable or unwilling to make good the war damage . 
The Act of 1943 long ago substantially achieved its original objective of getting owners to reinstate their damaged properties expeditiously and without the risk of the inflation which the issue on a grand scale of cash payments for the properties which were not total losses would have caused . 
The time has now come to get the remaining work done quickly or to give owners a payment to encourage them instead to make a different and perhaps better use of their property . 
The Main Provisions of a Closure Operation 
11 . 
It is considered essential that the winding up should be done in two stages with two statutory time limits : 
( 1 ) A registration date for giving notice of an intended claim for payment and of outstanding war damage , after which date no notice of claim in respect of any additional works will be admitted . 
This provision is designed to stimulate owners to take action , to put a barrier to the flow of claims which might otherwise trickle on almost indefinitely , and to inform the Commission of the approximate total liability which remains to be met. ( 2 ) A closing date for executing any " registered " war repairs which owners are willing and able to carry out at once , for the negotiation and payment of the resulting claims and for the negotiation and payment of converted value payments where there is no intention or prospect of the work being carried out during the post-registration statutory period . 
In short , the most practical and fair method is to eliminate all future claims after due notice by providing for registration , including registration of work already in hand , and then allow a further limited period for the orderly disposal of the registered works in consultation with the Commission . 
12 . 
Except so far as modifications are necessitated by the closure , the existing principles and structure of the War Damage Act , 1943 , will be preserved . 
The comparative absence of criticism during the past 20 years testifies to the aptness of the original provisions and to the good quality of the administration . 
The advantages of continuity , when it does not conflict with the main purpose , can not be over-estimated . 
Administration on well established and uncontroversial lines for the benefit of owners and professional men who have come to expect and accept certain procedures will undoubtedly help to effect a smooth running-down of the machine , a running-down which has in fact been in progress for some time , but which must now be given the promise of finality . 
13 . 
The following paragraphs contain a brief account of the measures proposed to effect a winding-up of the system by means of an amendment of the War Damage Act , 1943 . 
These measures were foreshadowed in the statement by its Financial Secretary to the Treasury quoted at the beginning of this paper . 
DANGEROUS OCCURRENCES 
To provide fuller information about certain types of dangerous occurrence , Section 65 of the Factories Act , 1937 , requires notification of certain specified occurrences to H.M. District Inspectors of Factories , whether or not they result in injury . 
Appendix 20 gives figures of dangerous occurrences reported in 1960 ; the types of occurrence which have to be reported are set out in the heading to the Appendix . 
The total number of dangerous occurrences reported during the year was 1,409 , an increase of 111 over the total for 1959 . 
However , the number of notifiable accidents associated with occurrences fell from 252 ( 31 of them fatal ) in 1959 to 245 ( 22 fatal ) in 1960 . 
The main increase in the numbers of occurrences reported occurred in the category of those due to the collapse or failure of a crane , derrick , winch or hoist , where there was an increase of almost one-third from 335 to 438 . 
This increase was common to factories , docks , and building operations . 
INDUSTRIAL HEALTH 
An analysis of cases of industrial disease or poisoning notifiable under Section 66 of the Factories Act , 1937 , or under Section 3 of the Lead Paint ( Protection Against Poisoning Act ) , 1926 , together with comparable figures for earlier years , is given in Appendix 21 . 
The total number of cases notified during the year was 569 , compared with 532 in 1959 ; the number of deaths remains unchanged at 10 . 
Cases of chrome ulceration increased from 192 to 298 , but reportable cases of epitheliomatous ulceration decreased from 226 ( nine of them fatal ) in 1959 to 173 ( six fatal ) in 1960 . 
The total of 19 cases of this disease due to mineral oil is the smallest number in that category for the last 10 years . 
Appendix 22 records the number of accidents involving gassing in 1960 , together with the figures for previous years . 
Both the total number of accidents ( 222 ) and the number of deaths ( 20 ) were greater than in the previous two years . 
Those of the above accidents which involve special circumstances or matters of particular medical interest are discussed in greater detail in the Industrial Health Report for 1960 . 
Appendix 23 records the numbers of statutory examinations carried out by Appointed Factory Doctors under the Factories Acts special regulations , and the numbers and circumstances of voluntary medical examinations . 
Appendices 24 and 25 set out the number of statutory examinations of young persons for certificates of fitness carried out by Appointed Factory Doctors , together with the causes of rejection . 
These examinations numbered 500,984 in 1960 , an increase of 21,962 on the previous year . 
There were 283,906 examinations of male young persons ( an increase of 19,706 ) and 217,078 examinations of female young persons ( an increase of 2,256 ) . 
For all causes , rejections among male young persons numbered 468 , and among female young persons 1,008 , an increase of 19 and a decrease of 89 respectively over the previous year 's figures . 
CHAPTER 2 Review of the Year 
This record of some of the more prominent features of the year 's activities and developments in the field of safety , health and welfare is presented in four sections . 
The first records some of the more important industrial developments affecting the safety , health and welfare of factory workers which come to the notice of H.M. Inspectorate of Factories during 1960 . 
This is followed by a brief reference to the activities of international , industrial and voluntary organisations in this field . 
A section on fire refers to the arrangements made to implement the new provisions of the Factories Act , 1959 . 
The chapter concludes with a summary of relevant legislation passed during the year . 
1 . 
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENTS A. ELECTRICAL DEVELOPMENTS Electricity Supply — General Developments 
The demand for electricity continues to double every 10 years . 
Such a rate of growth demands the addition of large quantities of new plant annually and , in order to save expense and space , a great increase in the size of individual units : generating sets of up to 550 MW and transmission systems to operate at 500 KV are now being designed . 
The speed of technical progress leaves designers with less opportunity to modify designs on the basis of working experience ; the more exacting planning requirements are being met by the increased use of computers and other aids . 
Automatic torque angle control has been introduced on the new large generators , whose safe operation at the extreme limit of stability would be beyond the capacity of the human operator . 
Difficult problems of protection under fault conditions have also to be tackled by Area and Distribution engineers as a result of the heavy concentration of power at sub-stations . 
Problems Involved in the Operation of Steam Turbo-Generators 
In order to provide continuity of electricity supply from large turbo-generators running in parallel , designers and operating engineers must understand both the balance between steam utilisation and electrical output and the influence of the connected electrical system upon the running speed and operational stability of the generator . 
On several occasions this balance has been seriously disturbed , e.g. , by the failure of the turbine governor gear immediately to reduce steam supply to compensate for a sudden loss in electrical load . 
Consequently speed has risen rapidly beyond the designed maximum , even with a centrifugal governor operating the steam through an oil hydraulic system and backed by an emergency governor . 
Centrifugal forces are capable of causing the turbine to disintegrate with serious damage to buildings and even loss of life . 
Research and development have been undertaken to reduce these hazards , which can be expected to become more serious as turbo-generators increase in power . 
Modern turbines are provided with anticipatory gear to detect and to correct instantly any violent rise in speed as with means of testing and checking the freedom of movement of the governor mechanism without taking the machine off load . 
In the unit system , where boiler , turbine and ancillary plant are integrated , controls are located in a single operations room under the supervision of a co-ordinated team . 
Instruments , controls and alarms are so grouped that quick reference can be made to both steam and electrical conditions . 
Wherever possible the principles of " failure-to-safety " or " back-up protection " have been incorporated in the design . 
Developments in Electronic Engineering 
Some of the more outstanding recent advances have been in the field of semi-conductor engineering . 
The advantages of semi-conductors are absence of moving parts , an indefinitely long life without maintenance and extreme versatility of function — including measurement , amplification , instrumentation , control , rectification , inversion and switching . 
Generally these devices tend to promote safety by their innate characteristics and reliability ; they also enable many new safety devices to be designed ; electromagnetic relays with mercury-wetted contacts are now available with a life-expectancy of hundreds of millions of contact operations and at the same time the robustness and reliability of electronic valves have been greatly improved . 
Progress in " miniaturisation " , also partly dependent upon semi-conductor techniques , can be expected to contribute to industrial safety in due course and eventually to make possible the construction of self-adjusting — monitoring — correcting and maintaining mechanisms of unprecedented reliability . 
The Use of Electricity on Constructional Sites 
In 1960 approximately one-eighth of all electrical accidents , including one-third of the fatalities , occurred on building and constructional engineering sites covered by the Factories Acts . 
The largest group of these was caused by portable electrical apparatus and its associated flexible cables and accessories , the next largest group was caused by other types of wiring . 
Interesting developments are taking place on some of these sites with a view to reducing the risk of electrical accident , e.g. : — 
( 1 ) In the construction of multi-storey buildings , rising mains at 415/240-V are installed in the form of cable so situated as to be protected against casual damage and 240-V single-phase supplies are tapped successively on to the various floors . 
This is economical and ensures that not more than one phase is available on any one floor during the work . 
Local voltage reduction by single-phase transformers on each floor is then installed for the period of the job . 
( 2 ) An alternative arrangement is to follow up the building work from floor to floor with a supply of carcase wiring sufficient for the operations , thus reducing to a minimum the amount of flexible and temporary wiring . 
Voltage reduction is then used on each floor . 
( 3 ) With transportable machines which are too large for single phase-motor drives , the practice of using three-phase motors with voltage reduction is growing . 
A transformer with a secondary output at 110-V , three-phase with earthed neutral point gives a voltage to earth of approximately 64-V , a value likely to be safe in all but the most exceptional circumstances . 
( 4 ) A common system of festoon wiring found in use in lighting the work required the piercing of cable by sharp contacts at points where it was necessary to instal lampholders . 
The risks of shock from leakage and pierced insulation made this wiring unsuitable for construction work . 
It is a most welcome development that makers are now producing an improved form with the lampholders moulded to the cable at such intervals as the purchaser may require . 
Prevention of Accidents at Overhead Electric Lines 
The problem of accidents from contact with overhead lines remains serious ; 107 such accidents have occurred in factories since 1954 , of which 44 have been fatal . 
While there has been some improvement in accidents from contact by cranes or similar machines the number caused by direct contact with lines — 20 , including six fatal ones in 1960 — has reached a level that gives cause for concern . 
Attempts are being made to develop equipment to fix on the crane which might reduce the risk of shock from contact with the line . 
The equipment takes two forms — an insulating guard on the jib of the crane , intended to prevent direct contact with the line , and electronic equipment with a sensitive probe mounted slightly forward of the head of the jib and with electronic assembly and warning apparatus in the driver 's cab . 
Improved designs of both forms are being tried out at present . 
There is , however , a danger that workers will rely too much on fixed devices because they fail to recognise their limitations . 
It is therefore safer both in principle and practice to keep the worker away from overhead lines wherever possible , e.g. , by 
( 1 ) re-routing the line , 
( 2 ) putting the supply underground , 
( 3 ) making the line dead ( after consultation with the supply authority ) , 
( 4 ) providing barriers at a safe distance to prevent vehicles from approaching the line , or height gauges or " goal posts " at points where vehicles must pass below the line , 
( 5 ) providing look-out men or banksmen . 
It is also important to remember that on lines carrying the higher voltages flashover from the line may take place without actual contact . 
B. ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENTS Leather Industry — Leather Rolls 
A new type of machine has recently been developed for the automatic rolling of sole leather bends . 
The sheet of leather is placed on a sliding feed tray outside the danger zone and is then pushed forward between two platens , the upper one carrying a set of small rollers . 
The lower platen , which supports the leather , is raised hydraulically to bring it into contact with the rollers on the upper platen , which is then caused to make several horizontal oscillations so that the leather is rolled and pressed at the same time . 
The danger zone between the platens is fenced by a guard which is interlocked with the hydraulic valve and the press is also sequentially operated : the closing of the shutter starts the machine , the rest of the cycle following automatically . 
Brickmaking Machinery — New Sanding Method 
A new method of applying sand to the faces of green bricks has recently been developed . 
In the case of wire-cut bricks the column of clay from the pug-mill is carried by a short length of belt conveyor to the sanding plant . 
This consists basically of a vibrating hopper from which the sand is distributed to all four faces by a system of slots , scrapers and worms . 
The conveyor is broken at this point to enable the sand to be applied to the under surface of the column , which passes on through two pairs of vibrating rollers which embed the sand firmly in the surfaces and is finally cut into bricks at the wire cutting table . 
Of over 7,000,000 square feet of factory space built by the development corporations , about 20 per cent represents extensions built after the firms had become established . 
It is the policy of the corporations to charge full rack-rents or ground rents for their factories or industrial sites ; and rents vary considerably according to the demand for factory accommodation . 
The average gross return on established industrial estates ranges from 7 to 9 per cent of the capital expenditure on land , site works and buildings . 
Manufacturing industry affords employment to large numbers of non-manual as well as manual workers . 
An analysis made by Crawley Development Corporation in 1958 , after collating replies from fifty-eight manufacturing firms employing over nine thousand staff , showed that 5 per cent of the staff were classed as managerial and administrative , 11 per cent as technical or employed in research and 19 per cent as clerical . 
There is no reason to suppose that this pattern is peculiar to Crawley . 
The development corporations have aimed at a varied pattern of industry , offering a reasonable choice of employer as well as choice of occupation for men , women and school-leavers , with due regard to the industries already established in their towns . 
Inevitably engineering , including the motor vehicle and aircraft industries , predominates in all the London new towns since these are among the industries which have expanded most during the last ten years in the country generally . 
Of those at present employed in manufacturing industry in the eight London new towns about 40 per cent are employed in engineering and electrical goods manufacture — the proportion employed in both these groups combined varies from about 30 per cent in Welwyn to 85 per cent in Stevenage and 90 per cent in Hatfield . 
These figures are much higher than the national averages , and may be thought to indicate a lack of balance in some of the towns . 
On the other hand these groups offer fairly varied opportunities of skilled employment and are highly diversified as regards products , markets and methods of manufacture . 
Consumer goods industries such as the manufacture of food and drink , tobacco , clothing and footwear are under-represented in the new towns generally though not in Basildon and Welwyn . 
The following table indicates the size of the firms , some of them occupying more than one factory , introduced or sponsored by development corporations in the new towns : 
The overall average for the factories sponsored by development corporations is about 170 employees per firm , and the average for each of the London new towns is roughly the same except at Hatfield , where it is much lower , and Stevenage , where it is much higher . 
The position at Stevenage is accounted for by the presence of one firm with 3,700 employees and two others with over 1,000 employees . 
About 32 per cent of all the workers employed in factories sponsored by the development corporations are employed by the eleven largest firms and about 23 per cent by the next group of firms employing between five hundred and one thousand workers . 
In factories sponsored by the London new town development corporations the proportion of female employees , expressed as a percentage of all employees , varies from 23 per cent in Welwyn Garden City and 24 per cent in Hemel Hempstead to 35 per cent in Basildon and 55 per cent in Hatfield with an average of about 30 per cent — rather less than in the country as a whole . 
The figures for Corby and Peterlee ( where the prime need so far has been to provide employment for women and girls ) are 82 per cent and 74 per cent respectively . 
Shops 
Shopping provision in the new towns has generally been based on an estimated need of about eight shops for every thousand people , this being considered sufficient to allow for shoppers coming into the town from surrounding areas . 
Distribution over the town as a whole varies , the smaller towns tending to rely mainly on the town centres with a few " pantry " shops in the neighbourhoods and the larger ones providing neighbourhood centres of up to thirty or more shops at the heart of the residential areas , as well as small sub-centres in outlying districts . 
Some development corporations have sought to attract private investors by leasing part of the shopping area to companies experienced in commercial development who have undertaken the building and letting of the shops . 
But corporations have generally found it more satisfactory to build themselves , leasing the shops direct to traders , with breaks in the lease to enable rents to be increased in scale with the rising prosperity of the town . 
This control over lettings also secures a balanced distribution of the type of shop , to meet the convenience of shoppers , and a reasonable degree of economic security for the individual shopkeeper . 
Timing has proved an important factor in the success of the shops . 
Too many at the start may not provide a living for the traders , but too few may result in failure to attract custom and the habit of dependence on mobile shops , essential in the early stages , may be slow to break if carried on too long . 
The establishment of open markets in the town centres has helped to bring custom to the shops and the initial fears of some of the shopkeepers that their trade would suffer have proved unfounded . 
Shopping on two levels has been introduced in a number of towns and has added to the interest of the town centre . 
All types of trader have been encouraged , from the large departmental store to the small shoe-mender , with banks specially sited on corners or in separate courts to avoid breaking into the shopping frontage . 
As in the case of factories and industrial sites , the corporations ' policy has been to charge full commercial rents for their shops and shopping sites . 
The cost of town centre development has been very high in some cases with large paved areas and pleasant amenities and decorative features . 
The gross return on capital expenditure on town and neighbourhood shopping centres ranges from 6 to 13 per cent . 
It is to their successful industrial and commercial development that the corporations must look to recoup the high costs of main sewerage and drainage , main roads and other special development expenditure . 
Service industry 
In the early stages of a new town most of the working population are employed in manufacturing or basic industry . 
In the London new towns it is estimated that between 60 per cent and 70 per cent are so employed ; in the provincial new towns the figure is somewhat higher . 
Employment in services of one kind or another may be expected to increase as the towns approach maturity : indeed , in the country generally the proportion of people so employed is growing steadily . 
These services develop at their own pace in response to local demand , however , and little can be done to stimulate them . 
Office employment 
In practice it has not proved possible as yet to attract " head offices and administrative and research establishments including sections of government departments and other public offices " on the scale needed " to establish the character of the town from the outset as one of diverse and balanced social composition " as recommended by the Reith Committee . 
Except at Hemel Hempstead , large office organisations have until quite recently shown little interest in the new towns , probably because of the difficulty in the early years in recruiting suitable staff , especially junior staff , locally . 
There is evidence of greater interest today , with nearly half a million square feet of office space under construction — almost as much as the total area so far completed . 
This interest is likely to grow as employers become aware of the advantages of setting up offices in towns with a young and growing population and excellent schools and technical colleges . 
Towards the end of the year the Minister wrote personally to some two hundred chairmen of companies with large offices in central London , drawing their attention to the opportunities offered by the new towns . 
The development corporations have provided office accommodation ( in addition to that included in factory premises ) in the form of buildings specially designed to meet the needs of particular organisations , and have also erected some buildings as a speculative venture . 
Despite some misgivings , these have readily let on satisfactory terms , including in many cases a break clause in the lease allowing for a future increase in rent to reflect rising values in the town . 
More modest premises are provided on the upper floors over shops in some of the town centres for the small type of office organisation . 
Government departments 
Government departments with branches established or about to be established in the new towns include Her Majesty 's Stationery Office at Basildon , the Meteorological Office at Bracknell , the Admiralty ( who have a research laboratory at Harlow ) , the General Post Office and the Ministry of Transport at Hemel Hempstead and the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research at Stevenage . 
Local offices of the Ministry of Labour , Ministry of National Insurance and Inland Revenue are of course established or proposed in all the towns . 
Youth employment 
Because of the abnormal age structure of the new town populations the number of children reaching school-leaving age , expressed as a percentage of the total population , has been and still is below the national average . 
But whereas the national annual average will settle down at something like 1.4 per cent after the "bulge " has passed , in the new towns the percentage will generally go on rising ( in some towns into the middle seventies ) reaching levels of perhaps 2.3 per cent in some towns before it begins to decline . 
During this period , when large numbers of school-leavers will be looking for jobs , there will be relatively few retirements . 
For the most part therefore local employment can be provided only by the expansion of existing industry and the introduction of new factories , laboratories and offices , and the expected but not easily stimulated development of the service industries . 
Schemes for training young people in industry and commerce will be particularly important in the new towns . 
Housing requirements of industry 
As the Reith Committee foresaw , "perfect synchronisation of the movement of employing firms with the movement of employed people is not practicable " . 
For short periods over the years some of the London new town corporations have been able to offer a house or a flat at once to anyone eligible for one , but in the main house building has lagged behind the demand . 
At the present time in most of the towns the waiting period has tended to grow , partly because the buoyancy of industry generates increasing demands , partly because in recent years the pressure on the building industry , the shortage of bricks and other materials , and the shortage of skilled labour , especially in the finishing trades , has made it difficult for corporations to achieve their full programme . 
It is believed that about 60 per cent of the employees of London firms transferring their business to the new towns moved with them and were thus eligible to rent a corporation house . 
Additional workers are recruited through the industrial selection scheme by arrangement with the Ministry of Labour . 
This scheme is designed to ensure that vacancies in the London new towns which can not be filled locally are filled as far as possible from people on London housing lists , who thus become entitled to rent a house in the new town . 
Londoners not in housing need , but whose departure from London may be assumed to release accommodation there , are recruited for jobs which can not be filled through the industrial selection scheme , and only as a last resort are people from outside London allotted new town houses . 
As a result , almost 80 per cent of the houses let by the development corporations in the London new towns have gone to Londoners , about half of whom are known to have been on local authority housing lists . 
Tables C , D and E of Appendix 16 give details of factories , shops and offices completed and under construction at the end of the year . 
Apart from those in ( e ) above , acceptance of post-release assistance by a prisoner in these groups is entirely voluntary ; he may not be recalled to prison or have any other sanction applied to him for subsequent refusal to co-operate with the officers of the Council , and no period of supervision can be laid down . 
We understand that the addition of detention centre inmates to the above list is being considered . 
From the Discharged Prisoners ' Aid Societies 
19 . 
Any discharged prisoner may apply ( without being required to observe any statutory or other conditions ) for post-release assistance from the Discharged Prisoners ' Aid Societies . 
In practice most of those they help are persons who are not under the care of the After Care Council . 
These are societies approved by the Secretary of State under section 18(4) of the Prisons ( Scotland ) Act , 1952 , and formed , in the words of the Act , " for the purpose of finding employment for discharged prisoners and enabling them by loans and grants of money to live by honest labour " . 
There are eight such societies in Scotland , all but one of which carry out their after-care functions through part-time agents . 
They receive from the state grants equal to half their approved expenditure ; for the rest of their income they depend on voluntary contributions and interest from investments . 
The societies have formed a national organisation , the Scottish Association of Discharged Prisoners ' Aid Societies , which acts as a co-ordinating body concerned primarily with policy and national appeals . 
We shall discuss the place of these societies in a modern scheme of after-care in our second report . 
EXISTING PATTERN OF SELECTION FOR AFTER-CARE 
20 . 
The aim of after-care is no doubt to protect society by helping the offender to re-establish himself so that he does not fall into crime again . 
It is , however , difficult to trace any guiding principle in the existing pattern of selection as described in paragraphs 17-18 above by which after-care is applied compulsorily , or made available on a voluntary basis to certain categories of prisoner . 
The arrangements would rather appear to have grown up piecemeal . 
The periods for which prisoners receive after-care also do not appear to be very effectively related to its objects . 
In general , the view appears to have been taken that a person released on licence before the end of his sentence should not be subject to supervision beyond the date on which the sentence expires . 
This has the odd result that the more remission a prisoner loses by misconduct , the shorter his period on licence . 
That is to say , in cases where rehabilitation might be expected to be particularly difficult the time available for after-care is cut down . 
Apart from such special cases , it seems to us that if the period of after-care is based arithmetically on the period of sentence it is unlikely to bear much relation to the prisoner 's individual needs , to the time required for after-care to be effective , or to the need of ensuring , in the public interest , that there may be adequate opportunity given to the welfare staff to do what they can to get the man to stand again on his own two feet . 
It will be very seldom that permanent good can be done in this field under six months , and for assistance to be withdrawn from a discharged person after , perhaps , a matter of weeks , must all too often mean a sorry waste of effort . 
21 . 
We are therefore satisfied that a statutory period of after-care must normally be one entirely independent of the particular prisoner 's period of remission as determined by his length of sentence and his conduct in prison — good conduct while in custody does not necessarily remove the need for supervision after release . 
It must in our view be fixed solely with the effectiveness of after-care in view . 
COMPULSORY OR VOLUNTARY AFTER-CARE 
22 . 
There is , of course , an element of contradiction in the idea of " compulsory after-care " . 
No man can really be helped against his will and a prisoner who resented the conditions attached to after-care could effectively enough go through the motions of co-operation without deriving any benefit . 
There is no doubt that where after-care is at least voluntarily accepted , the chances of success are significantly enhanced . 
We can not be satisfied , however , that the type of prisoner most in need of after-care would always willingly ask for it . 
He might be motivated by misplaced pride , by reluctance to appear to be currying favour " with the authorities " , or by a genuine inability to realise his own plight . 
Even of those who might while in prison opt for voluntary after-care , a considerable number , we have been assured , would on release find any kind of supervision conditions irksome and would cease to co-operate . 
This would involve great wastage of time and effort on the part of the already burdened after-care personnel . 
We therefore conclude that any effective system of after-care must depend on a statutory obligation on the prisoner or inmate to accept help , the value of which , we feel satisfied , will be fully explained to him by the staff of the prison or institution before his release . 
23 . 
Nevertheless , we do not consider that the work of the After Care Council should be confined to assisting those who are statutorily placed under its supervision . 
Ideally , all discharged prisoners and inmates might be required to accept the Council 's supervision and help . 
This is manifestly impossible at the present time , and compulsory after-care must therefore be put on some kind of selective basis . 
But we feel that , over and above the after-care of persons in the selected categories , there is scope for the Council to assist other discharged prisoners who are in special need of help and are willing to accept the discipline that any form of after-care must involve . 
We recognise that there is some danger of the resources of the after-care service being strained by an excessive volume of " voluntary " work , and that some method of selection to control it might become necessary . 
Nevertheless we recommend that the After Care Council should be given explicit power and accept supervision although they are not in the statutory categories which we propose later in this report . 
SELECTION FOR AFTER-CARE 
24 . 
Since compulsory after-care for every person released from custody is not feasible , or indeed necessary , some scheme of selection must operate . 
Some recommendations on this subject have already been made in the Advisory Council 's reports on Custodial Sentences for Young Offenders ( published in July , 1960 ) and on Short Sentences of Imprisonment ( published in May , 1960 ) . 
We refer to the effect of our own proposals on these recommendations in the summary of recommendations in paragraph 53 below . 
( a ) METHOD OF SELECTION 
25 . 
We have considered a number of possible methods of selection , but in the end we have concluded that at present the one that is most satisfactory is the application of compulsory after-care to categories of inmates and prisoners clearly specified in statute . 
We refer below to the other possibilities we have discussed : ( 1 ) Selection by the Court 
It is arguable , on the view that compulsory after-care , where it is appropriate , is part of the sentence imposed , that the court should select the offenders who would be likely to benefit from after-care , and include an appropriate period in the sentence . 
But we doubt whether the court , except perhaps where the sentence was a very short one , could actually assess at the time of imposing it what would be the offender 's needs when the time came for him to leave prison . 
The court might , possibly , impose after-care by categories , but this would only be doing what could more effectively be done by Act of Parliament . 
Selection by the courts of individual cases would , we fear , result in much resentment on the part of those chosen for it ; few would appreciate the court 's reason for choosing them rather than others , and some would regard the period of after-care as an addition to the sentence . 
They would thus be in a bad frame of mind to start the training which now begins on admission to prison . 
Successful prison training must be a favourable factor for resettlement after release , but if the prisoner started it with a feeling of resentment his co-operation would be more difficult to secure . 
It seems to us better that after-care should be attached by the law to certain custodial sentences rather than that it should have an appearance — in the minds of some offenders — of being an additional element that courts may add to the normal sentence at their discretion . 
( 2 ) Selection by prison staff , or by a prison board , or by the Secretary of State 
The Governor of a prison and his senior staff , including the prison welfare officer , could theoretically choose deserving cases for after-care , or make recommendations to a board consisting of members of the visiting committee . 
As , however , the basis of selection would be in the main the prisoner 's conduct and progress while in prison there might be a tendency to choose the man who simply avoided getting into trouble . 
It would , we think , be likely to create discontent among the body of prisoners to have the prison staff , or any board acting on their advice , choose certain men as apparently better , or worse , post-release risks than others . 
This would certainly be discouraging to the prisoner who might have welcomed after-care and who was not chosen , but conversely , would encourage the prisoner who did not want supervision to behave in such a way as not to be selected or recommended . 
In the end , the Governor and his staff would be inclined to avoid the invidiousness of selection by recommending almost every prisoner , or none . 
Placing the ultimate decision for selection on the Secretary of State might appear to remove the onus from the prison staff or prison board . 
The Secretary of State , however , would have to rely on reports from the prison and welfare staffs , and sooner or later this would be known to the prisoners . 
All the undesirable consequences of selection would still remain . 
( 3 ) Opting by prisoners , with earlier release 
The suggestion that a prisoner who voluntarily accepted after-care might thereby qualify for earlier release , through , possibly , a higher rate of remission , is at first sight not unattractive . 
We have been assured , however , that every prisoner would be only too willing to make a show of accepting after-care if earlier release were the consequence . 
The proposal would inevitably involve some kind of selection , with the attendant evils , and we do not think the prison staff , or any other staff , should have in their hands what would amount to a wide power to confer earlier release . 
There would , moreover , be some risk that those who opted would be regarded by the others as seeking the favour of the prison staff , and some might opt in the expectation of more considerate treatment , for example , by getting the better kind of jobs in prison . 
Opting for after-care with any kind of reward attached must in our opinion be ruled out at the present time . 
26 . 
Any of these methods of selection involves consequences which we think are unacceptable . 
Other strong objections to these methods are the prisoner 's uncertainty whether he will be selected and the difficulty of deciding the best time for selection . 
It is clearly undesirable that the prisoner should have to serve perhaps the better part of his sentence not knowing whether he will get after-care help on release , or that the welfare staff should not know in good time the prisoners they will be required to help . 
If conduct in prison were a deciding consideration selection would tend to be left to a time near the date of release . 
If a prisoner is going to get after-care he should know it as soon as he starts his sentence . 
27 . 
We therefore conclude that the only method of avoiding the difficulties of individual selection and of ensuring that a prisoner is at no time in any doubt where he stands in relation to after-care is to specify , in statute , the categories of prisoners to whom after-care is to be applied . 
We have already been pleased to be able to place our records at the disposal of the Cambridge Institute of Criminology in a study of some aspects of preventive detention . 
38 . 
On a more favourable note we quote the experience of one of the major combined area probation committees , whose annual report states that 83 per cent of its prison after-care cases completed their supervision satisfactorily compared with 72 per cent ex-borstal and 47 per cent ex-approved school cases . 
The ex-prisoners were the largest group out of a total of 185 persons from all three sources . 
39 . 
It is never easy to forecast how any man will respond to after-care so that we were dubious of the prospects for W ... , a man of 39 with a criminal history stretching back 25 years . 
On his eleventh appearance before the court he had received a sentence of 8 years ' preventive detention . 
In prison he was described as an unhappy creature who had started life badly — an unreliable and untrustworthy man who had steadily deteriorated over the years until he possessed neither the inclination nor determination to mend his ways . 
W ... was placed in the care of one of our Associates whom he met regularly for the next eighteen months . 
During this time W ... became aware of his own problems and limitations , but in the Associate 's skilled care he was also made aware of his own potential . 
To his amazement he remained in the same job throughout his supervision and proved to himself that there was no need for him to return to crime . 
He has , in fact , retained a friendly contact with our Associate although his statutory period of supervision has long since ended . 
40 . 
Our case histories are not all so successful . 
J ... was also released from a sentence of eight years ' preventive detention . 
In this instance business man in the North of England offered to find work and lodgings for him . 
In addition to his fare and subsistence on leaving the prison he received immediate aid from the National Assistance Board until he received his first week 's wages , and working clothes through our Associate . 
His new employer found him a furnished flat and being connected with a local football club provided him with a season ticket . 
Within a week J ... was before a Court again , having stolen from the flat and pawned the articles following on a week-end drinking bout . 
He is now back in prison after which we shall try again . 
41 . 
Life imprisonment . 
— The Division is also responsible for the supervision of men sentenced to life imprisonment and subsequently released by the Secretary of State on conditional licence . 
The number under statutory supervision at the year end was 20 , with an additional two persons under voluntary supervision . 
While some of these men will always need the help of the Association 's staff and Associates to order their lives , others have now reached a state of maturity which has enabled them to integrate themselves happily and successfully with the community . 
42 . 
Home leave . 
— In 1960 the number of prisoners granted home leave for employment and re-acclimatisation purposes and who would be the Division 's responsibility on discharge , reached a record total of 579 against 489 the previous year . 
Home leave involves a preliminary enquiry being made at each home ( often incurring more than one visit ) and at least once interview with each prisoner whilst on leave . 
The increasing N.A.D.P.A.S. Prison Welfare Officer complement is providing an accumulating load of home enquiries of many kinds relating to health , marital and property problems . 
Unpredicted home enquiries bear particularly heavily on a small welfare staff covering the whole of the Metropolitan area since they can not be planned beforehand yet must be carried out quickly if they are to be effective . 
Few of these homes are on the telephone , many of the wives or parents are working and a long journey by public transport is wasted if our caller can obtain no reply . 
43 . 
Discharged under Section 29 of the Prison Act , 1952. — The exercise of this police function , which we have regularly deplored in recent years , has continued throughout the year with the prospect that this will be the last occasion to report . 
3,497 men were discharged during 1960 with the obligation to report their addresses . 
Of the 3,387 discharged during 1959 , the position at the end of 1960 was that 1,101 ( 32.5 per cent ) had been reconvicted and 526 ( 15.5 per cent ) required to report directly to the police . 
44 . 
Accommodation . 
— Whilst the problem of finding work has only been serious in pockets of unemployment , that of finding suitable accommodation continues difficult . 
In fact , the more alternative occupations there are available , the fewer the women who take in lodgers . 
After-care is sometimes criticised for not having rooms ready for an ex-prisoner , but experience has shown that such a plan almost automatically publicises a client 's previous occupation . 
The alternative of putting a man into hostel accommodation for one night while providing him with sufficient funds to find his own lodging is ultimately a more effective arrangement . 
45 . 
In this connection we appreciate the work of such organisations as Norman House and Langley House , both now firmly established in their role of providing a special form of residential support and friendships for homeless ex-prisoners . 
The close and mutually advantageous relations which have been established between them and the official bodies augur well for the future development of such ventures which we understand are being planned in the Provinces . 
46 . 
The year has been marked by increasing co-operation between the Division and the National Assistance Board and of more sympathetic understanding of the difficulties of the ex-prisoners at all levels . 
Groups of National Assistance Board Officers have been addressed on these problems and resulting from a mutual review of procedure , discharged prisoners have since 1st August , 1960 , been accepted directly at the Board 's office before registering for unemployment with the Ministry of Labour . 
This has proved particularly beneficial to the homeless man in immediate need of finding lodgings . 
47 . 
Relationships with our colleagues in the Prison Service , the National Association of Discharged Prisoners ' Aid Societies , the National Assistance Board and the Ministry of Labour continue close and productive . 
These bodies are selected for mention solely because their functions are so closely integrated with our own . 
The achievement of close personal contact with our Probation Service Associates was cemented by an invitation to the Director to address the Annual Conference of the National Association of Probation Officers . 
Particular effort has been made during the year to invite the co-operation of the National Council of Social Service , the National Citizens Advice Bureau and the Women 's Voluntary Service in our work . 
To all who have shown their practical sympathy and understanding of our task , we offer our grateful thanks . 
Chapter Five TREATMENT OF BOYS 
1 . 
General . 
— In order to implement the proposals in the Criminal Justice Bill , 1960 , relating to the treatment of young offenders a considerable extension of the system of borstals and detention centres will be needed . 
2 . 
Three secure borstals are to be provided at Swinfen , Staffs. , Wellingborough , Northants. , and additional open borstals at Finnamore Wood Camp , Bucks . 
( now partially occupied ) and Shaftesbury , Dorset . 
The open borstal at Huntercombe is being adapted for use as a medium security borstal , and the adaption of Aylesbury prison as an establishment for young offenders has made further progress . 
3 . 
Three senior detention centres were opened in the early months of 1961 at New Hall Camp , Yorks. , Medomsley , County Durham and Aylesbury , Bucks . 
It is hoped to have four more centres ready by early 1962 at Erlestoke , Wilts. , Aldington , Kent , East Clandon , Surrey and Haslar , Hants , and a further centre at Kirklevington , Yorks , during 1963 . 
The semi-secure borstal at Buckley , Lancs. will become a detention centre in the autumn of 1961 . 
4 . 
Population . 
— Committals to borstal increased from 3,062 in 1959 to 3,476 in 1960 , and the daily average population in borstals from 4,034 to 4,115 . 
5 . 
Reception centres were under constant pressure ; one centre dealt with 2,028 cases , more than double the number handled three years ago . 
The modified form of allocation procedure reported last year and some staff additions enabled the centres to meet the demands of the training borstals , and for one of them to increase the psychological and psychiatric coverage . 
6 . 
The quality of borstal receptions during the year has been assessed in three ways : ( a ) in terms of the nature of the offences leading to the borstal sentence ; ( b ) in terms of educational and intellectual criteria ; ( c ) in terms of Mannheim-Wilkins prediction groups . 
No new trend was observed in the type of offence , the great majority of which continued to be those of breaking and entering and stealing . 
Offences against the person , including sexual offences , remained at about 12 1/2 per cent of the total offences . 
The distribution of intelligence and educational attainment also remained virtually unchanged , but there was a further deterioration in terms of the Mannheim-Wilkins prediction ratings which seems likely to have an adverse effect on training results . 
No less than 66.4 per cent of last year 's receptions fell into the C and D categories , those with the poorest prospects of success . 
This compares with 56.5 per cent in 1957 and 25.5 per cent in 1946 ( when the original research was undertaken ) whilst the present proportion of 9.9 per cent in the A and B categories ( with the best proportion of success ) compares with 10.2 per cent in 1957 and 32.7 per cent in 1946 . 
This deterioration in the quality of the training material suggests that the success rate is likely to be under 40 per cent . 
7 . 
The number of young offenders sentenced to imprisonment increased from 2,498 in 1959 to 3,099 in 1960 , and the number of committals to detention centres ( which was limited by the capacity of the centres ) showed a slight drop from 1,356 to 1,295 . 
Borstal Training 
8 . 
General . 
— This was the last full year in which Northallerton functioned as a preliminary training borstal . 
At the beginning of 1961 it became a full training borstal , when it was decided to discontinue the policy of sending boys , who might later be suitable for " open " training , to Northallerton for some months before making a decision as to their final training borstal . 
Some borstals felt that they were getting boys from Northallerton too late in their training , and that the period in which a lad settled in and became known by the new staff , tended to extend his training beyond the time he would have spent had he been originally allocated to his final borstal . 
This appeared unfair to the boy and sometimes affected his whole outlook . 
When the Northallerton staff were asked to concentrate their preliminary training into a shorter period so that it was not necessary to wait until a lad had attained senior training grade before sending him away , they were not so certain of their findings and tended to send more boys to closed conditions as a safety precaution . 
However , this difficulty might have been overcome had it not been necessary to use the training places at Northallerton for boys who needed the restriction imposed by this kind of borstal . 
The experiment has been one of great interest and may be repeated when conditions are more favourable ; Northallerton has done valuable and effective work , transferring some 340 lads to open conditions after having settled them down to borstal and dissipated the urge to run away that causes an upset in the training of so many in the first months . 
9 . 
Training . 
— The average length of training was 16.1 months . 
This ranged from 9.2 to 36 months . 
The average time at Reading was 27.7 months for those boys ultimately released from there . 
The full picture of the training programme given in previous reports has not greatly altered , but the concentrated effort required to prepare a lad for release in the shorter training period introduced during the past two years has increased the intensity of the work . 
One governor reports that at his borstal almost twice as many boys have been dealt with as in earlier years . 
The directors of the research associations have their own personal contacts with the appropriate laboratories in the Commonwealth countries . 
Apart from defence considerations , it is in the interest of our national economy that we should strive to increase our home production of food in terms of our livestock population and yield of crops per acre . 
Superimposed on all these considerations is the fact that with the improving economic status of the population there is an increasing emphasis on the intrinsic acceptability of food and particularly on its presentation in the retail shops . 
From the above brief introduction it follows that the pattern of food research should embrace the following broad fields : 
( 1 ) Methods of increasing production . 
( 2 ) Preservation ( transport , storage and distribution ) . 
( 3 ) Processing . 
( 4 ) Acceptability or intrinsic quality , including freedom from abnormal flavour or taint . 
( 5 ) Nutrition and hygiene . 
( 6 ) The possible toxicological effects of substances added to food during growth , transport and processing . 
( 7 ) Presentation . 
Each of these is a vast field of research and investigation . 
THE OVERALL PATTERN 
It is difficult to say where food research begins ; it involves all the scientific disciplines — physics , chemistry , mathematics , engineering , each ultimately wedded to one or more of the different divisions of biology . 
Apart from supplying graduate staff , therefore , the universities must in the long run set the level of food research ; they must also supply much of the fundamental knowledge required for advances in the science and technology of food . 
Certain of the universities with departments of agriculture and horticulture are of course carrying out continuous research directly on food , and this applies also to many biochemical departments . 
The concern of the Government is clear enough since an adequate supply of inexpensive food of satisfactory nutritional quality is essential for our survival and for our national prosperity . 
Thus there are some 23 research institutes or units wholly financed by the Agricultural Research Council , and the Ministry of Agriculture , Fisheries and Food has its own Food Science and Atomic Energy Division . 
The Agricultural Research Council is also concerned with the research programmes of 22 other institutes which are financed wholly or in part by the Council or , in the case of eight institutes in Scotland , by the Department of Agriculture for Scotland . 
Special grants are also made to universities and other organisations for research on subjects of interest to the Council . 
The total annual cost of all this research by the Council now exceeds £5 million . 
In the past the interest of the A.R.C . 
has been in animals and crops — their production and nutrition and the reduction of disease ; one exception is the work of the Hannah Dairy Research Institute over the past 25 years on the keeping quality of dried milk . 
More recently , however , the Council , in accepting responsibility for the Low Temperature Research Station , Cambridge , the Ditton Laboratory , and the Pest Infestation Laboratory , Slough , has moved outside the " farm gate " and has thus extended its interest in food to include storage and preservation . 
To quote from its last Annual Report : " The importance has been previously stressed of considering the production , handling , storage , packaging and processing of food as links in one continuous chain of operations , the final objective of which is to provide the nation with food of the highest quality at the lowest economic price . 
The Council has therefore always in mind the need to integrate research on production with that on the intermediate steps involved in the passage of food from the farm to the dinner table . 
This is equally true whether the production is on our own farms or those overseas . 
To this end the Council is keeping in touch with research on production throughout the Commonwealth and , where possible , in other countries from which our food comes . 
The establishment of the Overseas Research Council , of which the Council 's Secretary is an { 6ex officio member , will , it is hoped , help to strengthen the links already existing between the overseas producer and those responsible for handling and processing imported foodstuffs in this country . " 
To help the Council in its wider responsibility the Ministry of Agriculture , Fisheries and Food and the Secretary of State for Scotland have recently set up a Food Research Advisory Committee to advise on those food problems requiring investigation or research and on their order of priority . 
Finally , to complete the picture of food research institutes , mention must be made of the Torry Research Station of D.S.I.R. and its associated Humber Laboratory in Hull . 
Whereas these two laboratories are concerned with the very practical problems of handling , storage and distribution of fish , their fundamental research — for example in bacteriology and that on fish oils and antioxidants — is of great interest and value to all food research laboratories . 
On the nutritional side the Medical Research Council , with its many research units working directly on nutrition or in related fields , advises the Government through the Ministry of Health , and the Chief Medical Officer to the Ministry has his own Standing Committee to discuss problems of food and health . 
Among more than 50 industrial associations sponsored by the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research are four working wholly on food problems . 
Research carried out by these four bodies , whose work will be mentioned later , naturally has a strong bias generally , but not completely , towards the problems involved in the processing of food and its acceptability by the consumer . 
There is in addition the research and , particularly , development carried out wholly by industry . 
The results of this are to be seen , for example , in the margarine and soft drinks industries , in the development of containers for canned foods , in the relatively new development of packaged frozen foods , and in the sizeable export trade mainly in processed foods ( more than £160 million annually ) from a country so largely dependent on imported basal foods . 
Another notable example of research financed wholly by industry is that of the Brewing Industry Research Foundation at Nutfield , Surrey , now an established national institute . 
The pharmaceutical and chemical industries should also be mentioned in connection with the large-scale production of vitamins , the production of pure substances to counter the various forms of deterioration , and the introduction of many substances which act as aids to processing . 
The foregoing is an over-simplification of the pattern of Government , Government-aided and industrial food research in this country ; it is uneven and thin in places , but evidently it does deal with food from the farm or field to the table as well as nutritional quality . 
The research structure has of course developed piecemeal and the type and scope of the work of any individual institute is rarely exclusive . 
On the whole , judging by the amount of money spent on research , it would appear that the emphasis is on production — perhaps understandable in a country that has to import so much of its food . 
Nevertheless some might argue that since the purpose of food is to keep man fit and healthy the greatest emphasis should be on its nutritional quality . 
Furthermore nutritional research has hitherto been confined almost exclusively to the food requirements of children and adolescents . 
But we have now moved into a phase when the nutrition of the adult calls for more research , particularly in view of the growing belief that the type of food man eats may be a factor in his susceptibility to certain diseases . 
Except in a state of emergency , however , people will continue to eat what they like and not what is necessarily best for them . 
It might also be claimed that as a complement to research on production there should be sustained research on the synthesis of protein , fat and carbohydrate to insure against a food shortage from any cause ; by its nature this research is more a challenge to the scientific workers in the universities . 
THE FOOD RESEARCH ASSOCIATIONS 
There are four research associations concerned wholly with food : 
The British Baking Industries Research Association . 
The Research Association of British Flour-Millers . 
The British Food Manufacturing Industries Research Association . 
The Fruit and Vegetable Canning and Quick Freezing Research Association , often referred to as the Campden Research Station . 
The primary interest of each of these associations is to improve and standardize the manufacturing or processing methods and the quality of the final products of the particular industry it serves . 
In contrast with most of the research units associated with the Agricultural Research Council , the emphasis is on the factors outside the farm gate . 
At the same time the quality of the final product must be influenced by the quality of the raw material of the industry , and the methods of processing may influence its nutritional quality . 
In the overall food research pattern , therefore , the work of the research associations ( coupled with that of the food industries ) is complementary to that of the Agricultural and Medical Research Councils and the universities . 
This seems logical but when one looks at the relatively small expenditure of the food research associations , compared for example with the £5 million vote of the Agricultural Research Council , it is paradoxical . 
For 1960 the incomes were : Of this total £207 840 was provided by industry and the remainder by D.S.I.R. 
It must be remembered , however , that a research association , by its nature and organisation , should be an extremely objective , efficient and economic research unit . 
For the most part it has no need to search for its problems , and the solution to a particular problem can usually be tested out at once in a member 's plant without the expense of a pilot plant , etc . 
Furthermore it has behind it the stimulating urge and interest of its members , just as it can call on their experience and judgment to help it decide how far it is profitable to pursue a particular line of enquiry . 
It might be said that these conditions are similar to those of the private laboratory of an individual food manufacturer . 
They are , but the important difference is that the research association serves a whole industry and this , coupled with the fact that it has close links with D.S.I.R. and other Government departments , encourages it to work along independent and pioneer lines in both its research and applied work . 
Its members realize that this must be so if the association is to be their scientific liaison with the Government departments concerned with their particular industry . 
The work of the Food Standards Committee of the Ministry of Agriculture , Fisheries and Food affords a notable example : this Committee when considering a particular foodstuff usually invites the director of the appropriate research association to attend its meetings and , in some cases , to act as assessor to the Committee . 
Although a research association serves a whole industry it is significant that often the work of the association has encouraged individual firms to start up or extend their own laboratories . 
In this way the research associations have brought a much greater scientific outlook and interest into the industry as a whole than their budgets and work would indicate . 
Co-operative Research . 
Apart from collaboration between themselves it is traditional and in fact essential for the food research associations to collaborate whenever possible with other laboratories that specialize in some particular aspect of food science and technology . 
This is usually of mutual advantage since the research association has its own specialized knowledge and equipment to offer . 
Thus a notable example is the joint work with the M.A.F.F . 
in connection with food defence plans . 
Similarly there is continuous contact and collaboration with the Low Temperature Research Station , Cambridge , and the Pest Infestation Laboratory , Slough ( both A.R.C. ) , the Ministry 's Food Science and Atomic Energy and Infestation Control Divisions , and the Laboratory of the Government Chemist . 
A particularly intimate case is that of the British Food Manufacturing Industries Research Association , which has seconded staff to the Low Temperature Research Station to work on the irradiation of foods as a possible method of preservation . 
Again , the associations can call on the resources of the Commonwealth Mycological Institute , which maintains a collection of fungi many of which are of interest in research into certain food problems . 
10 . 
Coming back to the broad design , the Government entirely agree with the Commission that Greater London has a recognisable civic unity and shape , largely because it has grown outwards from a single centre . 
But its local government structure , inherited from the days when London was much smaller , in no way reflects that unity . 
The major services are administered by six county councils and three county borough councils , and three systems of local government exist side by side . 
They are : single-tier government in the county boroughs , two-tier government of the normal pattern outside the present administrative county of London , and a unique two-tier system within the administrative county , in which most of the important local government functions vest in the county council . 
11 . 
London has clearly outgrown the system of local government devised to meet the vastly different physical and social conditions of the last century . 
This great town now faces immense problems of congestion , of traffic , of land shortages , and of major redevelopment . 
All of its citizens are " Londoners " , not only those who live within the City and the 28 metropolitan boroughs . 
Greater London is their city and all are involved in what happens to it . 
12 . 
The Royal Commission were convinced that , unless some method could be found within the framework of local government to tackle the pressing problems of Greater London , the central Government would increasingly supersede the local authorities . 
They thought that that would be disastrous for local government , and they were right . 
That is the answer to those who say that a system of local government which recognises Greater London as a unit for some purposes is not local government at all . 
In the Government 's opinion it is the only way to enable Greater London to enjoy an adequate measure of responsible self-government . 
13 . 
There is now an opportunity to carry out effective reorganisation which will bring London government into harmony with the physical features of the metropolis , and will fit it to face the new problems presented by changing social conditions and the ubiquitous motor vehicle . 
The Government are convinced that if this opportunity is not now grasped , local government will wither in the capital city where , in the past , it has been strongest . 
14 . 
The Government have been impressed by the wide recognition among the local authorities concerned of the need for some change . 
True , many would adopt a different and less radical solution than that proposed by the Commission . 
But about the same number , while having reservation on some points of detail , accept the Commission 's broad plan . 
15 . 
The feature which attracted the greatest support was the conception of the borough as the primary unit of local government . 
The Government are sure that this is the right principle . 
It is a serious defect in the present organisation that many of the boroughs , and especially the metropolitan boroughs , have no real responsibility for the running of the local and personal services . 
The system proposed by the Commission would place personal , preventive and environmental health services , welfare and children 's services , and housing , in the hands of one authority , local enough in character to enable local knowledge of the area and of its living and working conditions to be brought to bear . 
This would not only greatly enlarge the scope of the borough councillor , but would also make for more effective administration of these closely linked social services . 
The Government regard this as a key feature of the Commission 's plan , and one well designed to attract into local government more men and women of real ability , by making sure that there are worthwhile jobs for them to do . 
If any re-organisation of local government does not secure this it will fail of its purpose . 
16 . 
The principal alternative plan is one , sponsored chiefly by the county councils of Essex , Kent , London , Middlesex and Surrey , for an indirectly elected joint board for an area a good deal wider than that reviewed by the Commission , and the retention of the existing county and county borough councils . 
The board would have responsibilities in town planning for drawing up a master plan to which the local planning authorities would be required to conform , covering such regional questions as the main road framework , target populations , the level and main disposition of employment : for laying down the main considerations for dealing with traffic : for planning and co-ordinating refuse disposal : and for planning and co-ordinating programmes for over-spill . 
The powers of this joint board would be mainly advisory in character , and meanwhile somewhat greater powers would be conferred on or delegated to the boroughs . 
17 . 
The Government believe that a plan on these lines would not begin to meet the needs of the situation . 
For a start it ignores — or denies — one of the fundamental assumptions on which the Royal Commission 's Report was based . 
This is that the built-up areas outside the County of London are , now , more properly a part of Greater London than of the Home Counties to which historically they belong . 
But that apart , this plan would surely confuse responsibilities . 
The authority which has to deal with the planning , traffic and road problems of Greater London must exercise a real responsibility , and must be able to secure that its plans are effectively carried out . 
A largely advisory body , with powers mainly of co-ordination and supervision , would be likely to achieve very little . 
The overall authority must be an executive body if it is to be effective , although no doubt it would be right that it should in some matters act through the agency of the borough councils . 
The Government also believe that this authority , for full effectiveness and bearing in mind the powers and responsibilities which it will carry , ought to be directly elected . 
A joint board as envisaged would entail a third tier of responsibility , and this would only further confuse the already confused local government pattern in the area . 
County councils would be sandwiched between the joint board and their boroughs and districts , while the latter could not be given the responsibilities which , in the Government 's view , they ought to have . 
18 . 
The Government recognise that the abolition of the present county pattern in the London area will present formidable problems of organisation . 
Their concern is to get the best administrative structure for local government . 
When that is settled they will give consideration to such related matters as the arrangements for the administration of justice , for the lieutenancies and for sheriffs . 
In general they wish to emphasise that they propose to make only changes which are needed to achieve their main purpose and matters consequential to it . 
These proposals should not affect any existing cultural , social , sporting or other associations or loyalties which may be based on the traditional counties . 
They are , however , convinced that London needs a form of local government organisation to match its present physical shape and state . 
They are convinced , too , that this organisation must be one which recognises the unity and cohesion of the area , and which would combine ability to handle those issues that demand a comprehensive view of the whole area with the capacity to grapple effectively with the many and complex local problems . 
The Government believe that , provided these conditions are met , the new structure will provide fuller opportunities for really worthwhile local government service . 
The Boroughs 
19 . 
The Royal Commission suggested that the boroughs should fall within the population range 100,000 to 250,000 , and provisionally proposed a pattern comprising 52 new boroughs ( including the City ) . 
The Local Government Act , 1958 , provides that , in so far as the constitution of a new county borough outside the metropolitan area is affected by considerations of population , the Minister should presume that a population of 100,000 is sufficient to support the discharge of the function of a county borough council . 
This does not mean , however , that larger units would not be better if they could be set up without loss of convenience . 
Larger units would mean more work for each authority in all the personal services , and so make specialisation in staff and institutions more efficient and economical . 
In addition , larger units would be stronger in resources and so better able to secure the major redevelopments which many boroughs now need . 
They would be better able to maintain and improve the standard of their services and to undertake their development as circumstances may require . 
Moreover the very nature of London — continuously built-up at high densities , with a comprehensive system of transport and a population which in many of its daily activities pays little regard to local boundaries — distinguishes it from the typical county borough . 
Hitherto , London has suffered in its local administration from too great a proliferation of not very strong authorities . 
The aim now should be to create units which , while retaining their local character , are well equipped to provide a fully adequate standard of local services . 
In a closely-knit area such as London , the Government believe that this object can best be assured by aiming at a larger minimum population and rather fewer boroughs than suggested by the Commission . 
They consider that this will make not only for higher standards , but also for greater economy in administration . 
20 . 
The Government 's general conclusion about the size of the boroughs is that it would be desirable to aim at a minimum population of around 200,000 wherever possible . 
Some boroughs might be substantially larger than this . 
They propose shortly to circulate , as a basis for consultation with the local authorities , an illustration of how larger boroughs might work out . 
21 . 
The Government agree that the term " metropolitan borough " should now be abandoned ; they propose the title of " London Borough " . 
The Commission suggested that the constitution of the borough councils should follow that of municipal boroughs outside London , and the Government agree with this view . 
22 . 
The Government agree with the Royal Commission in thinking that the boundaries and status of the City of London should remain unchanged , and that it should receive the additional powers given to boroughs in the London area . 
The Greater London Council 
23 . 
The Government agree that the Greater London Council should be directly elected . 
They propose to adopt the Commission 's plan that its members should serve for three years and retire together . 
24 . 
The Commission proposed that election should be based on Parliamentary constituencies . 
On the present structure this would give a membership of about 110 . 
Many authorities have criticised this proposal , and argue that representation would better be based more directly on the boroughs . 
This is a matter which will require further examination in the light of the pattern of boroughs which emerges , and the Government reserve their decision on it . 
25 . 
The Government agree generally with the principles applied by the Commission in deciding which areas they should recommend for inclusion in the Greater London administrative area . 
When consultation takes place with the local authorities about the borough pattern , there will be opportunity for any peripheral authority to make known its views about its inclusion in or exclusion from the London area . 
The districts left out of the London area will be brought within the ambit of the Local Government Commission , who will then of course be able to consider , among other things , Watford 's claims for county borough status . 
Functions 
26 . 
The following paragraphs set out the Government 's broad proposals with regard to the administration of particular functions ; many matters of detail will naturally require further consideration . 
Personal Health and Welfare Services and Children 's Services 
27 . 
There was no doubt in the Commission 's mind that these services , with the exception of the ambulance service , should all be organised on as local a basis as possible ; they recommend that they should become a borough responsibility . 
The Government agree with this conclusion . 
They concur also in the belief that positive advantages will follow from the concentration of responsibility for these services , and other associated ones such as housing and environmental health , in the hands of the same authorities . 
Housing 
28 . 
The Government accept the Royal Commission 's main conclusion that housing is essentially a borough service . 
For example , in one of the factories studied , which packed domestic goods , output per man hour increased by 75 per cent and earnings by 40 per cent , and the wages cost per unit was reduced by 20 per cent , in a period of two years following the introduction of the financial incentive scheme . 
Although the Birmingham study suggests that financial incentives are effective in influencing the behaviour of workers , it also shows that the effects may vary a great deal from factory to factory . 
Where high output is already being achieved , the introduction of a financial incentive may make little or no difference . 
In other circumstances , however , the effect may be quite marked . 
In yet others , there may be influences at work which prevent a scheme from having the intended effect . 
It is always difficult to anticipate precisely what the effect will be , or to make any useful statement about the relationship between the financial incentive on the one hand , and effort or output on the other , which would apply in all circumstances . 
But it is obviously useful to know what influences are likely to affect the success of financial incentive schemes , and to be aware of some of the practical difficulties which may arise . 
The evidence from intensive studies of workshop behaviour by social scientists in Britain and U.S.A. will now be discussed briefly . 
THE INFLUENCE OF THE SOCIAL GROUP 
Observation of behaviour in workshops often reveals that levels of output and earnings under financial incentive schemes are controlled by groups of workers . 
This is possible because , by their very design , such schemes leave the worker some freedom to regulate the relationship between effort and reward , hence providing scope for manipulation . 
The extent of this , and the desire to manipulate , will vary from workshop to workshop , according to the degree of machine-pacing of work , and the effectiveness of other managerial controls . 
It will also depend on whether workers want to set their own standards of output and earnings . 
If they do , and if their standards are lower than those considered as reasonable by managers , such behaviour is usually called " restriction of output " . 
Behaviour of this kind and the judgements which are made about it , reveal that the ideas of managers and workers will often differ about a fair day 's work for a fair day 's pay . 
The existence of such discrepant ideas has long been recognized . 
F. W. Taylor , a pioneer of scientific management , used the colourful term " systematic soldiering " to describe control over output by the working group , when the group 's standards were lower than management hoped for or expected . 
He believed that this could be overcome by the scientific setting of standards , by more efficient methods of working and managerial control , and by the offer of cash incentives to workers , specially selected as suitable to perform certain tasks defined by management . 
In Taylor 's scheme , which has been widely adopted in various forms , the onus is upon management to develop more effective techniques of control over the production process . 
Often investigators , including Taylor himself , have argued that to change attitudes is equally important , if not more so . 
P. E. Vernon argued , for example , that the "economic fallacy " of restriction of output — i.e. , that it is in the workers ' best interests — could be overcome if workers were better educated , and allowed a greater share in management . 
Later researches suggest that these investigators over-stressed economic rationalism as a motive in worker behaviour . 
Social scientists have pointed out that the behaviour of an individual is largely controlled by the rules and customs of society as a whole and of the groups within it to which he belongs . 
He is rewarded when he conforms to the rules , and punished when he deviates from them . 
A very powerful social sanction , for example , is " sending to Coventry " which cuts the deviant off from social communication with other members of his group . 
In a society like our own , which is highly differentiated along lines of occupation and social class , and which is built up of a multitude of interlinked groupings and specialized activities , it is not surprising that differing standards emerge , which are preserved and maintained in the processes of group life . 
All this was illustrated in the well-known Hawthorne experiments carried out in the U.S.A. The investigators , who watched the behaviour of the workers in the Bank Wiring Room concluded that the workers kept output at a steady level below the limit set by normal fatigue , not because they were , as individuals , pursuing well-defined economic interests but because they feared that to behave otherwise would promote external pressure to break up the group . 
The workers explained their behaviour , it is true , by reference to their fear of rate-cutting , or working themselves out of a job , and so on . 
But these explanations seemed to the investigators to be rationalizations of behaviour which had itself arisen from deep-rooted psychological and social needs . 
There is much evidence which supports the view that workers may be willing to forgo greater cash rewards to maintain pleasant social relationships and other satisfactions , such as control over the working environment . 
If this is so the attempt to tighten management control over the behaviour of individual workers — by the techniques which Taylor , amongst others , advocated — may well be felt as a threat to the working group , and may generate sufficient resistance to nullify the intended effects of the techniques themselves . 
For a time after the classic Hawthorne studies , some observers of behaviour in workshops were so concerned to stress the importance of social satisfaction that they tended to ignore the continuing influence of economic needs on the behaviour of workers . 
Recently some writers have suggested that a worker may gain both social and economic satisfaction , because controls over output and earnings maintained by the group may also be intended to serve economic objectives , and may consciously be designed to do so . 
A recent Manchester University study , supporting this kind of conclusion , was carried out in an engineering workshop , where a group of workers manipulated a complicated incentive scheme by an unofficial procedure which they described as " cross-booking " . 
The incentive scheme was designed to reward individual workers according to the proportion of time saved on " allowed times " based on time-study data . 
The workers found that some of these times were " loose " , that is , much time could be saved and bonus earned , with relatively little effort . 
Other times were " tight " , requiring much effort to effect substantial saving and bonus . 
This group had devised a procedure which balanced the effects of tight and loose allowed times . 
A proportion of the time saved on loose jobs was not declared by the men when they filled in their time sheets . 
The men claimed that this procedure had two effects : the existence of loose times was concealed from the management , and the time which they had saved but had not declared , could be " banked " and then " booked " on to tight jobs to make them pay . 
The workers claimed that this procedure enabled them to stabilize effort and earnings and , at the same time , to protect themselves , by concealing the loose rates , from rate-cutting by management . 
To book straight , they argued , would have also led to wide fluctuations in their earnings since the proportions of tight and loose rates which would be allocated to them in any week could not be accurately predicted . 
To check the workers ' claim that cross-booking stabilized earnings , an investigation was made of the wages records . 
Comparisons of the earnings of persons who cross-booked with those of the few deviants who booked straight seemed to support the claim , as the graph shows ( see p. 14 ) . 
These and other similar studies suggest that the manipulation of incentive schemes by groups of workers is an attempt to put into effect their ideas of a fair day 's work . 
If the ideas of managers and workers differ about what a worker ought to produce in a day , it is to be expected that both parties will try to express these ideas in behaviour : management by procedures of administrative control , and workers by individual or by group action . 
The question as to why ideas about a fair day 's work should differ will be discussed in a later section . 
But the realization that ideas do differ and that financial incentive schemes offer scope to groups of workers for expression of their ideas has led to the emergence of other methods of wage payment which will encourage workers to aim for standards which managers regard as appropriate . 
GROUP BONUS AND OTHER SCHEMES 
It might appear that the use of group bonus schemes in place of individual incentive schemes would provide an answer to the problem of the influence of social groups on output . 
Such schemes seem to offer no threat to group solidarity and social satisfaction . 
They may even enhance them . 
Yet , at the same time , the group may behave as an individual is supposed to do — i.e. to increase output and earn as much as possible . 
There is little in reason or experience , however , which lends support to this view . 
It is true that some processes lend themselves easily to systems of group payment as , for example , in the steel industry where many processes are operated by crews of men . 
But there is nothing in such schemes to ensure that output levels will meet management expectations if the crews decide otherwise . 
The scope for control still exists . 
Group bonus schemes may or may not encourage a sense of common purpose , depending on other circumstances . 
Group bonus schemes pose their own special problems . 
If workers perform different tasks , difficulties may arise over dividing the group earnings in accordance with the different contributions of individuals . 
Even where workers perform similar tasks , individual differences in skill and application may make any simple division of earnings seem unfair , and may adversely affect relationships within the group . 
Instances have been reported where workers have asked managers to replace group by individual incentives , for this very reason . 
In recent years the idea has been gaining ground that the kinds of financial incentive scheme discussed above are an inefficient means of managerial control . 
Since they leave workers free to make individual or collective decisions about the relationships between effort and reward , they weaken managerial control over the productive process , and affect the capacity of the management accurately to set standards and to plan programmes of work . 
Attention has therefore been turned to the development of systems of payment which offer a regular weekly sum to individuals in return for a consistent level of measured performance . 
In such schemes payment is not related directly to pieces produced or to time saved . 
They take the form of a contract in which the individual undertakes to maintain a certain pace of work in return for a weekly wage . 
One effect of this is that management is better able to predict and plan . 
Another is that the onus is placed on managers and supervisors to see that workers have enough work to do to fulfil their obligations under the contract . 
Some schemes provide that if a worker shows himself capable of reaching and maintaining a higher pace of work , he can be given a higher weekly wage . 
So there is still an incentive to increase output . 
Schemes such as this , like individual and group piece-work or bonus schemes , raise practical problems of setting rates or measuring standards of performance , i.e. the translation of ideas of a proper day 's work into terms of physical output or effort . 
It will be argued here that procedures for setting rates , however refined , do not by themselves solve any of the problems raised by the existence of differing notions of a proper day 's work . 
But it is necessary in any discussion of financial incentive schemes to describe and evaluate these procedures . 
THE PROBLEM OF RATE SETTING 
Before the stop-watch was widely introduced for timing industrial work , piece-work schemes were usually based on times estimated by supervisors , who relied on personal judgement based on past experience . 
This method , sometimes referred to as " guesstimating " , is still employed . 
( 2 ) The provisions of the said Acts with respect to lands and feu duties or ground annuals so far as such provisions are applicable shall extend and apply to any such grant and to any such servitude right or privilege as aforesaid . 
15. — ( 1 ) The County Council may — 
( a ) retain and hold and use for such time as they think fit any land or interest in land vested in them as part of the harbour undertaking ; 
( b ) sell feu lease excamb or otherwise dispose of any such land or interest no longer required for the purpose of the harbour undertaking in such manner and for such consideration and on such terms and conditions as they think fit ( whether in consideration of the execution of works or of the payment of a gross sum or of an annual feu duty or rent or of payment in any other form ) ; 
( c ) sell excamb or dispose of any feu duties created or rents reserved on the sale feu lease excambion or other disposition of any such land or interest ; 
( d ) make do and execute any deed act or thing proper for effectuating any such sale feu lease excambion or other disposition ; 
( e ) on any such excambion pay or receive money for equality of exchange : 
Provided that the County Council shall not without the consent of the Secretary of State sell feu lease excamb or otherwise dispose of any such land or interest therein except at the best price or upon the best terms which can be obtained for such land or interest but a purchaser feuar or lessee shall not be concerned to enquire whether the consent of the Secretary of State is necessary or has been obtained . 
( 2 ) Nothing in this section shall release the County Council or any persons purchasing or acquiring any land or interest in land from them under this section from any feu duties ground annuals rents obligations restrictions reservations terms or conditions made payable by or contained in any conveyance lease or other deed or instrument by which the land or interest has been conveyed feued or leased to or otherwise acquired by the County Council or any persons from or through whom the County Council have derived title to such land or interest . 
PART 4 LIMITS 
16. — ( 1 ) The limits within which the County Council shall have authority and within which the powers of the harbour master may be exercised with respect to the harbour undertaking shall comprise the lands forming part of the harbour undertaking and the following area below high-water mark that is to say an area lying within a limit commencing at a point on the foreshore at high-water mark on the west shore of Symbister Bay one hundred and forty feet from the root of the proposed breakwater ( Work No. 2 ) on true bearing two hundred and eighty degrees thence proceeding in a straight line across Symbister Bay or the sea and foreshore of the same on true bearing fifty-four degrees for a distance of one thousand three hundred and thirty feet or thereby to a point on the foreshore at high-water mark on the east shore of Symbister Bay thence proceeding in a southerly direction along high-water mark on the east shore of Symbister Bay passing the tidal basin on the east side of the bay and thence generally south-westward again along high-water mark on the south shore of Symbister Bay to the root of the south pier of the existing small boat harbour thence following the line of the piers and quays forming the existing small boat harbour and the proposed new harbour works to the root of the proposed breakwater and thence along high-water mark on the west shore of Symbister Bay to the point of commencement which limits are in this Order termed " the harbour limits " . 
( 2 ) The limits within which the powers of the County Council to levy rates with respect to the harbour undertaking may be exercised shall comprise the harbour limits and such limits shall be construed as being included in the parish of Nesting Lunnasting Whalsay and Skerries and wholly within the county for all purposes . 
( 3 ) A map or plan showing the harbour limits of which four copies have been signed by Colin Neil Fraser Q.C . 
Counsel to the Secretary of State under the Private Legislation Procedure ( Scotland ) Act 1936 shall within one month after the commencement of the Order be deposited as follows that is to say two copies at the office of the Minister one copy with the sheriff clerk of the county at his office and one copy at the office of the county clerk of the county . 
( 4 ) In case of any discrepancy between the limits delineated in the said map or plan and the limits described in subsection ( 1 ) of this section the said map or plan shall be deemed to be correct and shall prevail . 
PART 5 WORKS AND POWERS 
17 . 
Subject to the provisions of this Order and also subject to such alterations ( if any ) in the plans and sections deposited with reference to this Order as the Minister may require before completion of the works the County Council may on the lands belonging to them or acquired under this Order and in the lines and according to the levels and within the limits of deviation shown on the deposited plans and sections make and maintain the works . 
18 . 
The works authorised by this Order will be situated in the parish of Nesting Lunnasting Whalsay and Skerries and county of Zetland and on the foreshore and bed of the sea adjacent thereto and are — 
Work No. 1 The construction of an access roadway thirty feet wide commencing at a point one hundred and twenty feet or thereabouts north-west of the root of the existing pier and extending in a northerly direction for a distance of one hundred and twenty feet or thereabouts from the point of commencement ; 
Work No. 2 A reclamation of the foreshore the construction of a quay and the infilling levelling and surfacing of the deck thereof as a solid structure commencing at a point on the foreshore approximately two hundred feet north-west of the root of the existing pier and extending seawards in a north-easterly direction for a distance of one hundred and sixty feet or thereabouts thence in a north-westerly direction for a distance of two hundred and fifty feet or thereabouts thence in a south-westerly direction for a distance of two hundred and ten feet or thereabouts and thence in a south-easterly direction for a distance of two hundred and forty feet or thereabouts and comprising an area of five thousand seven hundred and thirty-one square yards ; 
Work No. 3 The construction of a breakwater as a solid structure commencing at a point on the foreshore four hundred and ninety feet or thereabouts north-west of the root of the existing pier and extending in a north-easterly direction for a distance of four hundred and ten feet or thereabouts from the point of commencement ; 
Work No. 4 The construction of a pier as an open work structure with a wave screen along the seaward face commencing at the termination of Work No. 3 and extending in an easterly direction for a distance of two hundred feet or thereabouts from the point of commencement . 
19 . 
Subject to the provisions of this Order in constructing the works the County Council may deviate laterally from the lines thereof as shown on the deposited plans to any extent not exceeding the limits of deviation marked thereon and may deviate vertically from the levels of the works shown on the deposited sections to any extent not exceeding five feet upwards and to any extent downwards : 
Provided that deviation either lateral or vertical below high-water mark shall not be made without the consent in writing of the Minister . 
20 . 
Subject to the provisions of this Order the County Council may from time to time erect construct and maintain whether temporarily or permanently all such necessary works and conveniences as may be requisite or expedient for the purposes of or in connection with the construction maintenance and use of the works . 
21. — ( 1 ) Subject to the provisions of this Order the County Council may within the harbour limits rebuild maintain repair renew widen alter improve restore reconstruct and extend the harbour undertaking and may from time to time erect construct and maintain whether temporarily or permanently all necessary ancillary works apparatus and conveniences and may also from time to time lay down and maintain rails tramways and turntables . 
( 2 ) A line of rails or tramway constructed under the powers of this Order shall not be used for the public conveyance of passengers unless it has been certified by the Minister to be fit for that purpose . 
( 3 ) Any electric light and power or other apparatus constructed and maintained under this Order shall be so constructed used and maintained as to prevent any interference with any telegraphic line ( as defined by the Telegraph Act 1878 ) belonging to or used by the Postmaster-General or with telegraphic communication by means of any such line . 
22 . 
Any person who wilfully obstructs any person acting under the authority of the County Council in setting out the lines of the works or who pulls up or removes any poles or stakes driven into the ground for the purpose of such setting out shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding ten pounds and shall in addition be liable to repay to the County Council any expenses incurred by them in making good such damage . 
23. — ( 1 ) If the works are not substantially commenced within two years from the commencement of this Order or such extended time as the Secretary of State may in the circumstances by order direct the said powers shall cease . 
( 2 ) If the execution of the works after having been substantially commenced is virtually suspended for twelve consecutive months the said powers shall cease except as to so much of the works as is then completed unless the Secretary of State by order directs that the said powers continue and remain in force but subject to the foregoing provision as to completion the said powers shall cease in any event within five years from the commencement of this Order . 
( 3 ) A certificate of the Secretary of State to the effect that the works have not been substantially commenced or that they have been virtually suspended for twelve consecutive months shall for the purposes of this section be conclusive evidence of the facts stated in such certificate . 
24. — ( 1 ) The County Council shall not under the powers of this Order construct renew extend or alter any works on in under or over tidal waters or tidal lands below high-water mark except in accordance with plans and sections approved by the Minister and subject to such restrictions and regulations as the Minister may prescribe before such work is begun . 
( 2 ) If any such work is commenced or completed contrary to the provisions of this section the Minister may abate and remove the same and restore the site thereof to its former condition at the cost of the County Council and the amount of such cost shall be a debt due from the County Council to the Crown and shall be recoverable accordingly . 
25 . 
If at any time the Minister deems it expedient to order a survey and examination of any work constructed by the County Council under the powers of this Order on in under or over tidal waters or tidal lands below high-water mark or of the site upon which it is proposed to construct any such work the County Council shall defray the expense of the survey and examination and the amount thereof shall be a debt due from the County Council to the Crown and shall be recoverable accordingly . 
26. — ( 1 ) Where any work constructed by the County Council under the powers of this Order wholly or partially on in under or over tidal waters or tidal lands below high-water mark is abandoned or suffered to fall into decay the Minister may by notice in writing either require the County Council at their own expense to repair and restore such part of such work as is situated below high-water mark or any portion thereof or require them to abate or remove the same and restore the site thereof to its former condition to such an extent and within such limits as the Minister may think proper . 
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM AND THE GOVERNMENT OF DENMARK RELATING TO TRADE AND COMMERCE 
The Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark ; 
Desiring to make provision for continuing in force with certain modifications , primarily caused by the decision of the United Kingdom to apply as from 1st October , 1956 , a tariff of 10 per cent . 
{ 6ad valorem on imports of bacon from foreign countries , the Commercial Agreement of 24th April , 1933 ; 
Have agreed as follows : — ARTICLE 1 
The Commercial Agreement of 24th April , 1933 , ( hereinafter referred to as " the Commercial Agreement " ) as modified by the present Agreement shall continue in force during the currency of the present Agreement . 
ARTICLE 2 
The Commercial Agreement is amended as follows : — 
( a ) In the Second Schedule the item " Bacon ... 
Free " is deleted and the following substituted therefor : — 
" Bacon ... 10% { 6ad valorem , provided that the Government of the United Kingdom shall suspend such duty during any period in which imports into the United Kingdom of bacon from Denmark are subject to quantitative restrictions . " 
( b ) In paragraph ( 2 ) of Article 4 the words " For bacon and hams , the Danish allocation shall not be less than 62 per cent . 
of the total permitted imports from foreign countries " are deleted and the following substituted therefor : — 
" There shall be allocated to Denmark not less than the following percentage shares of the total foreign quotas for bacon and for hams , respectively permitted to be imported into the United Kingdom : — 
For bacon ... 68.95 per cent . 
For hams ... 0.4 per cent . " 
ARTICLE 3 
The following shall cease to have effect as from the date of entry into force of the present Agreement : — 
( a ) The Supplementary Commercial Agreement of 21st December , 1938 , in so far as it has not already by virtue of the Commercial Agreement of 13th August , 1949 , ceased to have effect . 
( b ) The Commercial Agreement of 13th August , 1949 , and the Notes exchanged on the same date . 
ARTICLE 4 
At any time at which both Governments are contracting parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade the provisions of Article 1 , Article 2 ( except in so far as they relate to bacon ) and sub-paragraph 2 of Article 7 of the Commercial Agreement shall be inoperative . 
The provisions of sub-paragraph 2 of Article 9 of the Commercial Agreement shall also be inoperative at any time at which both Governments are contracting parties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and the Government of Denmark is applying the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in respect of Greenland . 
ARTICLE 5 
Nothing in the Commercial Agreement as modified by the present Agreement shall — 
( a ) require either Government to do anything contrary to any obligations to which it may be subject under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade ; 
( b ) prevent either Government from restricting quantities or value of imports into its territory to such an extent as may be necessary to safeguard its external financial position and balance of payments . 
ARTICLE 6 
For the purposes of the Commercial Agreement as modified by the present Agreement — 
( a ) the term "foreign country " means in relation to the United Kingdom any country other than those referred to in Annex A to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade ; 
( b ) the term "total foreign quota " means the total amount of the commodity in question comprised in the specific allocations of permitted imports which are distributed on a percentage basis among specified foreign countries and does not include imports which may be permitted within the limits fixed for " insignificant " suppliers ; 
( c ) any reference to regulation of imports into the United Kingdom relates to regulation of the quantities of imports only ; 
( d ) the expression " from Denmark " in relation to agricultural products means " produced or manufactured in Denmark " ; 
( e ) any reference to imports of fish into the United Kingdom from Denmark includes a reference to fish landed in the United Kingdom direct from the sea by Danish vessels ; 
( f ) the term " United Kingdom " means Great Britain and Northern Ireland , the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man . 
ARTICLE 7 
The present Agreement shall be ratified and the instruments of ratification shall be exchanged at London as soon as possible . 
It shall come into force immediately on the exchange of the instruments of ratification and it may be terminated by either Government upon the expiration of six months ' notice given to the other Government , provided that it shall in any event not terminate before 31st March , 1961 . 
In witness whereof the undersigned , being duly authorised thereto , have signed the present Agreement . 
Done in duplicate at London , this eighteenth day of November , one thousand nine hundred and fifty-seven , in the English and Danish languages , both texts being equally authoritative . 
SELWYN LLOYD . 
STEENSEN-LETH . 
EXCHANGES OF NOTES No. 1 ( a ) The Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to the Danish Ambassador at London 
Your Excellency , 
In the course of the negotiations between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of Denmark , which resulted in the signature to-day of a Trade Agreement , you indicated that you would be grateful for an assurance from the Government of the United Kingdom that the agreement concerning arrangements respecting the expiration of the long-term agreement for the purchase of bacon , as set out in the Agreed Minute and Exchange of Letters of the 27th of February , 1956 , is still valid . 
I have the honour to inform Your Excellency that it is the understanding of the Government of the United Kingdom that nothing in the Agreement concluded to-day involves any amendment or limitation of the rights of either party under the said Agreed Minute and Exchanges of Letters . 
You also asked for confirmation that , notwithstanding Article 3 ( b ) of the Agreement concluded to-day , the termination of the Protocols , Agreements and Exchanges of Notes referred to in Article 4 of the Commercial Agreement of the 13th of August , 1949 , will still have effect . 
I have to inform you that this is the understanding of the Government of the United Kingdom . 
I have , &c.; 
SELWYN LLOYD . 
No. 1 ( b ) The Danish Ambassador at London to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs 
Sir , 
I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your Note ND 115/12 of the 18th of November confirming that it is the understanding of the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland that nothing in the Trade Agreement concluded to-day involves any amendment or limitation of the rights of either party under the Agreed Minute and Exchanges of Letters of the 27th of February , 1956 , concerning arrangements respecting the expiration of the long-term agreement for the purchase of bacon . 
PART 1 POWERS OF COURTS IN RESPECT OF YOUNG OFFENDERS Borstal Training and Imprisonment 
1 . 
— ( 1 ) The minimum age at conviction which qualifies for a sentence of borstal training under section twenty of the Criminal Justice Act , 1948 , shall be fifteen instead of sixteen years . 
( 2 ) The power of a court to pass a sentence of borstal training under the said section twenty in the case of a person convicted as therein mentioned shall be exercisable in any case where the court is of opinion , having regard to the circumstances of the offence and after taking into account the offender 's character and previous conduct , that it is expedient that he should be detained for training for not less than six months : 
Provided that such a sentence shall not be passed on a person who is under seventeen years of age on the day of his conviction unless the court is of opinion that no other method of dealing with him is appropriate . 
( 3 ) Before passing a sentence of borstal training in the case of an offender of any age , the court shall consider any report made in respect of him by or on behalf of the Prison Commissioners , and section thirty-seven of this Act shall apply accordingly . 
( 4 ) The foregoing provisions of this section shall apply in relation to committal for a sentence of borstal training under section twenty-eight of the Magistrates ' Courts Act , 1952 , as they apply to the passing of such a sentence under section twenty of the Criminal Justice Act , 1948 . 
( 5 ) Subsections ( 7 ) and ( 8 ) of section twenty of the Criminal Justice Act , 1948 , and subsections ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of section twenty-eight of the Magistrates ' Courts Act , 1952 , shall cease to have effect . 
2. — ( 1 ) In subsection ( 2 ) of section fifty-three of the Children and Young Persons Act , 1933 ( which provides for the passing of a sentence of detention for a specified period in the case of children or young persons convicted on indictment of certain grave crimes therein mentioned ) for the words from "an attempt to murder " to "grievous bodily harm " there shall be substituted the words " any offence punishable in the case of an adult with imprisonment for fourteen years or more , not being an offence the sentence for which is fixed by law " . 
( 2 ) In subsection ( 1 ) of section seventeen of the Criminal Justice Act , 1948 ( which precludes a court of assize or quarter sessions from imposing imprisonment on a person under fifteen years of age ) for the words "fifteen years " there shall be substituted the words " seventeen years " . 
3. — ( 1 ) Without prejudice to any other enactment prohibiting or restricting the imposition of imprisonment on persons of any age , a sentence of imprisonment shall not be passed by any court on a person within the limits of age which qualify for a sentence of borstal training except — 
( a ) for a term not exceeding six months ; or 
( b ) ( where the court has power to pass such a sentence ) for a term of not less than three years . 
( 2 ) Subsection ( 1 ) of this section shall not apply in the case of a person who is serving a sentence of imprisonment at the time when the court passes sentence ; and for the purpose of this subsection a person sentenced to imprisonment who has been recalled or returned to prison after being released subject to supervision or on licence , and has not been released again or discharged , shall be treated as serving the sentence . 
( 3 ) In relation to a person who has served a previous sentence of imprisonment for a term of not less than six months , or a previous sentence of borstal training , subsection ( 1 ) of this section shall have effect as if for the reference to three years there were substituted a reference to eighteen months ; and for the purpose of this subsection a person sentenced to borstal training shall be treated as having served the sentence if he has been released subject to supervision , whether or not he has subsequently been recalled or returned to a borstal institution . 
( 4 ) The foregoing provisions of this section , so far as they affect the passing of consecutive sentences by magistrates ' courts , shall have effect notwithstanding anything in section one hundred and eight of the Magistrates ' Courts Act , 1952 ( which authorised such courts in specified circumstances to impose consecutive sentences of imprisonment totalling more than six months ) . 
( 5 ) Her Majesty may by Order in Council direct that paragraph ( a ) of subsection ( 1 ) of this section shall be repealed , either generally or so far as it relates to persons , or male or female persons , of any age described in the Order : 
Provided that — 
( a ) an Order in Council shall not be made under this subsection unless the Secretary of State is satisfied that sufficient accommodation is available in detention centres for the numbers of offenders for whom such accommodation is likely to be required in consequence of the Order ; 
( b ) no recommendation shall be made to Her Majesty in Council to make an Order under this subsection unless a draft of the Order has been laid before Parliament and has been approved by resolution of each House of Parliament . 
Detention Centre and Remand Home 
4. — ( 1 ) In any case where a court has power , or would have power but for the statutory restrictions upon the imprisonment of young offenders , to pass sentence of imprisonment on an offender under twenty-one but not less than fourteen years of age , the court may , subject to the provisions of this section , order him to be detained in a detention centre . 
I do not know what the right hon. Gentleman means by " large part of the country . " 
For all I know , over a geographical area what he says may be true . 
For example , let us consider the area in which the hon. Member for Exeter plays such a large part . 
If the Government knock down one cottage in the middle of Dartmoor , they may be removing all the slums over a wide area . 
But if the Minister means , by " large part " , areas where people are living in great concentrations of population , then the answer is that the areas that are not keeping up with the slum clearance programme represent the majority of unfit houses in the country . 
The figures which the right hon. Gentleman quoted in the White Paper , relating to 50 local authorities who were behindhand in their programmes , included authorities in some of our great industrial areas . 
If , when he talks about the problem being solved over a large part of the country , he is merely noting that in Torquay , for instance , 41 out of 42 houses were demolished in five years , I give him his figures , but we know that in the great industrial areas the situation is completely different . 
The right hon. Gentleman is entitled to make the point that he is not solely responsible for slum clearance , and that it is a question of partnership between him and the local authorities . 
When things go well , we do not hear much about the contributions made by local authorities , but we are likely to hear about them when things go badly . 
What are the reasons for the slow completion of the slum clearance programmes ? 
He gave first priority to the shortage of technical staff , but I would like to point out one reason for that shortage . 
Up to 1957 , local authorities had been encouraged to build up the technical staffs in their housing departments , under the drive of the early years , but then they were suddenly faced with a drastic cut in their programmes , imposed by the Government , and they had to turn away their technical staffs , who found work elsewhere . 
That was not the fault of local authorities . 
Once an establishment has been arrived at for carrying out a certain programme it is very difficult to maintain it if Government interference causes frequent fluctuations in that programme . 
One of the alarming things that the Minister said was in reply to a Question put by my hon. Friend the Member for Oldham , East ( Mr. Mapp ) . 
He said that he hoped to see the recruitment of technical staff improved by the engagement of staffs from other local authorities as they completed their slum clearance programmes . 
That was a rather nasty shock for local authorities who were hoping that when they had completed their slum clearance programmes they would be able to go on with their other necessary programmes — perhaps to increase their programmes for houses for the old people , for the sick and the disabled , and also to expand their programme of houses for general needs . 
By his Answer the right hon. Gentleman was saying that when local authorities completed their slum clearance programme he was going to cut down their programmes for other forms of house building to force the transference of technical staffs to those areas which had still to complete their slum clearance programmes . 
Another difficulty has been the rise in the cost of land , about which the House has had a good deal to say . 
There are two aspects of this problem . 
There is the special problem of areas in which there is an excessive demand for land , about which I do not want to say much at the moment . 
But even in areas where there is no reason to suppose that the demand for land is abnormal the price has risen enormously . 
My constituency of Widnes is in an industrial part of Lancashire , which is not developing very rapidly . 
Nevertheless , although only five or six years ago £500 an acre was considered a fairly stiff price to pay , in the last few compulsory purchase orders it has made that local authority has been paying over £7,000 an acre . 
That is some measure of the obstacles which face a local authority which is trying to carry out its slum clearance programme . 
The question of the interest rate affects both the cost of land and the increased cost of building . 
Local authorities are caught both ways . 
They are caught in relation to their normal costs , because any increase in the rate of interest means an immediate increase in rents . 
They are also caught by the excessive cost of all the auxiliary services which have to be added to the actual building cost . 
In this connection , the Government issued some interesting figures , which I propose to use rather than my own , because we must presume that the Government figures are fairly accurate . 
If a rate of interest of 3 3/4 per cent . 
— which is about equivalent to the Public Works Loan Board rate in 1950 — is compared not with the present rate of 6 1/8 per cent. , but 5 3/4 per cent. , the difference in respect of the loan charges on a house costing £1,500 is about £32 5s. a year . 
That may not seem a great deal of money , but it is enough to knock out even a £24 subsidy . 
In other words , over the last ten years the Government have really not been paying any subsidy at all . 
They have been increasing costs by raising the rate of interest on loans while increasing the subsidies by a figure not nearly enough to meet the extra costs caused thereby . 
We can , therefore , say that the present unhappy position in slum clearance is largely due to the obstacles placed in the way of local authorities either directly or indirectly , by Government policy . 
I do not know what the current estimates will be , but in last year 's estimates the amount of money paid out in subsidy for expensive sites rose very drastically . 
Was that due to the fact that more expensive land was being used , or that the Government were having to pay expensive site subsidies on ordinary land in areas where no such subsidy would have had to be paid before ? 
I suspect that the second alternative was the cause of the increased estimates . 
I now turn to the question of overspill , in respect of which it is very difficult to discover what has been happening . 
It is one of the engaging peculiarities of the situation that the Scottish Housing Return gives figures relating to the rehousing of people from overspill areas while the right hon. Gentleman as far as I know , is careful never to give any such figures . 
I do not know what has been happening . 
All I know is that some years ago the Permanent Secretary reckoned that about 2 million people were required to move from the great towns , and that that meant the building of over 500,000 houses . 
If that information is married with the estimate of a former Minister of Housing and Local Government — the present Secretary of State for Commonwealth Relations — that 20,000 houses were needed annually for overspill , we see that that envisages a programme lasting for about twenty-five years , which is a fairly long-term project . 
It is much more than even the development of a single new town . 
The last figures I have seen , which related to 1958 , showed that under 10,000 houses were being provided to accommodate overspill . 
I do not know what has happened since , but I suspect that , if anything , things have got worse . 
Let us now consider the right hon. Gentleman 's attitude towards the new towns , which form a very important part of the whole problem . 
For many years it has been very difficult to get the right hon. Gentleman to " come clean " on the question whether or not he intended to build any new towns . 
For a long time he was rather evasive about it . 
In a debate in July , 1960 , he said : 
" I do not rule out the idea of other new towns ... 
It is easy for the Leader of the Opposition to suggest the idea of more and more new towns as a complete solution , but he never addressed himself , in his speech , to where these new towns should go . " 
— [ OFFICIAL REPORT , 18th July , 1960 ; Vol. 627 , c. 56-7 . ] 
If one read that statement in the context of the New Towns Act , it was reasonable to assume — and I think that most people assumed — that the Government were not intending to provide any new towns , either because they could not find sites , or because they did not want to . 
When the New Towns Bill was being considered , the Government were implored again and again to provide compensation for redundancy , or to give a glimmer of hope to the people employed in the new town corporations that they would get employment in other new towns . 
All that the right hon. Gentleman would say was that when the new towns were completed there would be openings for them in the general administration of the new towns . 
But at no time was he prepared to give any hope that other new towns would be provided . 
The right hon. Gentleman would not pay compensation for the people who were made redundant . 
The demoralising effect on the staff of the new towns was deplorable . 
Naturally , the people who were faced with the possibility of their jobs coming to an end , the best people , the younger people , the people who had most hope in getting out of the new towns back into either other aspects of public service or into private enterprise , took every opportunity to get out because they knew that , sooner or later , their jobs would come to an end and as far as they could see there was no hope of any alternative form of employment . 
What has happened now ? 
In 1951 , a preliminary plan was prepared for Lancashire , to include Parbold as a new town . 
In the final plan that was submitted in 1956 , Skelmersdale , which was approximately the same , was designated by the Lancashire County Council as a new town area . 
That was cut out of the 1956 plan . 
As late as July , 1960 , the right hon. Gentleman was still saying that he could not find sites for the new towns , yet within a matter of six months he was telling us in the House that he had decided to approve Skelmersdale as a new town . 
Could anything be more crazy ? 
Could anything be more crazy than to demoralise the staff , to break up the morale of the corporations , to do all one can to create the impression that the new towns are a dying industry , and then , when one has successfully done that , to resurrect a new town which was suggested originally in 1951 and suddenly decide to approve it ? 
I have seen some of this . 
Widnes is a reception area for Liverpool . 
We have been vitally concerned about whether new towns would be built . 
I am sure that everybody concerned with the problem was under the impression that the Ministry had decided not to build a new town in Lancashire . 
Now I am delighted that we are to have one . 
If there is to be a new town , could there be a more crazy and incompetent way of setting about getting a successful new town than the method adopted by the Government ? 
What is required from the right hon. Gentleman is more than a few new towns dotted about here and there . 
What is required is a determined effort to relocate not only people , but industry , away from London and the South . 
The Co-operative Permanent Building Society sends out an interesting bulletin about the price of houses on which it has lent money . 
It points out that the outstanding feature of the property market during 1960 was the marked rise in the price of houses in the London area and in the Home Counties . 
Behind Clause 1 there is the conception of fairness and justice between child and child . 
Our Amendment merely carries this conception of justice further . 
We want it to obtain between non-graduates and non-graduates under different local authorities , and between the students who come under Clause 1 and those under Clause 2 . 
This underlines what my hon. Friend the Member for Flint , East ( Mrs. White ) has said about grants . 
The Minister has said nothing about the incomes scale on which grants under this Clause are to be assessed . 
Surely in the grants made to students once the local authority has said they ought to pursue their further education , there can be no defensible variations between one local authority and another . 
We used to hear talk about major and minor awards , and I thought we had wiped out that foolish stratification . 
This Clause if unamended permits the widest variation even in the amount of grants . 
I think that this is the most important point which has so far emerged in this debate , and I regret that the Parliamentary Secretary has said nothing about it . 
I have often had to fight a battle for a student who has been refused a grant by a local education authority and in the best cases both the local authority and myself have gone to the Minister . 
We have received advice and information from the Ministry and that has meant usually that either the local authority has accepted ministerial advice if the authority had been wrong or I have accepted it if I was wrong . 
The Ministry is in a position to know more than even the best local education authority . 
That is the pattern we are now seeking to establish in legislation . 
Under the " permissive " powers , however , in the worst cases when the Ministry was right and the M.P . 
was right the local authority could still dig its heels in and say that whatever the Ministry said it was not going to give a grant . 
The Minister said there are practical difficulties about implementing an Amendment , and suggested it was not possible to include all the courses into the regulations . 
Nobody would wish to write in the course of two or three lectures only to which he referred and behind which he sheltered . 
What we envisage in Clause 2 is the same pattern as in Clause 1 where we write into the regulations every criterion , everything that is possible to apply nationally . 
Most of the courses that we are talking about there is no difficulty in defining and no difficulty in putting in the regulations . 
On top of that , Clause 1 ( 4 ) says : 
" Without prejudice to the duty imposed by subsection ( 1 ) of this Section , a local education authority shall have power to bestow an award on any person in respect of his attendance ... " 
In this Clause , too , we would write in such a provision , and leave with the authority the right and privilege of being more generous than the regulations . 
What we are asking the Minister to do is to set out in regulations the many courses we know about which have national status and those which we might describe as having a kind of local national status . 
If the student is of the right calibre to pursue a course , which the Ministry enacts is a worthwhile full-time course , he shall receive the same justice from Britain whatever authority he happens to have been born under . 
11.15 a.m . 
The Parliamentary Secretary said that there was nothing to worry about , that the Government had looked into the position and that there were no complaints . 
Whether the Minister is aware of it or not , the whole case for the Bill is that there has been a sort of ground swell of complaints which , over the years , have become more and more insistent . 
There has not been justice between student and student . 
Whatever is true about the university students with whom Clause 1 deals is true about the variety of other students with whom Clause 2 deals . 
What the hon. Gentleman is asking us to do is to leave everybody , except first degree students , in exactly the position they were in before the Bill . 
I share the passionate view on this that my hon. Friend the Member for Flint , East showed in her speech at our last meeting , and I hope that it will be possible for the Committee , even now , to persuade the Parliamentary Secretary to change his mind . 
Mrs. Eirene White : I can not understand how the Parliamentary Secretary can suppose that in his answer today he dealt with the matter which we have raised . 
We are here dealing with the whole corpus of students other than those going to universities , but all we have had from the Parliamentary Secretary has been a few perfunctory remarks at the beginning of our deliberations this morning . 
That means that one has to go back to the beginning and spell out for the Committee what it is that we are really discussing . 
We can not leave the situation like this . 
I want to quote a paragraph from the Ministry Circular 5/61 which is the present practice and which is now being embodied in statutory form in the Bill . 
Paragraph 9 says : 
" Applications for awards for university diploma or certificate courses . " 
This gives a very important group of people 
" Non-graduates taking full-time university diploma or certificate courses lasting for three years or more should receive awards in accordance with paragraph 8 ( a ) above . " 
That is , roughly in the same way as those in Clause 1 . 
" Awards for other diploma or certificate courses should be considered on their merits . " 
That is all that is said in the circular about non-university and non-teacher training college students . 
We are now speaking of people who are taking courses other than university degree or comparable to degree courses . 
This is a very important group which the circular mentions merely by saying that their cases should be considered on their merits . 
There is no guidance or direction from the Minister . 
In addition to this group of people who go to universities and who take , for example , a social science diploma , which is normally a two-year and not a three-year course , or the Diploma of Public Administration at Oxford , which is also a two-year and not a three-year course , there are tens and possibly hundreds of thousands of students taking full-time courses at technical colleges . 
All those are being dismissed by the Minister . 
If hon. Members have any doubts about this , I refer them to the present practice . 
My hon. Friend the Member for Southampton , Itchen ( Dr. King ) said he thought that minor awards had been abolished . 
I am sorry to say that this is not so . 
Certain local authorities have abolished minor awards for full-time education , but not all . 
London County Council reached the very proper conclusion that minor awards were not suitable for full-time students . 
The National Union of Students has investigated this matter . 
As all hon. Members are aware , it issues a very useful book on grants to students which it brings up to date every year and which it sends to all education authorities , including those in the Channel Islands , and the total number of which is 149 . 
The Union gets replies from nearly , but not quite , all of them . 
Of those who replied to the question of what awards were given to full-time students over the age of 18 attending technical college courses not of degree or equivalent status — in other words the people with whom Clause 2 deals — the Union got the following replies : 67 authorities give minor awards of varying value and assessment ; 11 give major awards ; 13 give major awards dependent on qualifications ; 10 base their awards on costs ; 11 consider each case on its merits . 
Certain authorities — I will not shame them by naming them — give no awards at all . 
Others give assistance only with travel costs . 
One authority offers what it calls a home scholarship for the final year of the student 's attendance at the local college . 
It is perfectly plain from that that the practice of authorities in dealing with students taking full-time courses at universities for less than three years , or at technical colleges or at other institutions of comparable standard where the student is 18 or more at the time — and let us deal only with that group for the moment — varies very widely . 
I will not now deal with the little difficulty , which the Parliamentary Secretary mentioned , about the person who goes for only a few lectures , or who takes up something which is obviously a hobby . 
I am now dealing with those taking full-time courses for a considerable period — say , a minimum of one academic year . 
Many would be taking courses for two years and those at technical colleges perhaps for much longer . 
Those are full-time students pursuing serious studies . 
The practice among authorities obviously varies , not only on the question of the parental means scale , with which I dealt fairly emphatically last week and which the Parliamentary Secretary did not even mention , not only in the way they assess parental incomes , but in the amounts which they give . 
I have with me information which has been collected by the National Union of Students and I will quote a few of the replies which it received last year . 
This concerns grants current in the academic year 1961-62 for full-time students over the age of 18 and attending full-time at technical colleges , taking courses which are not for a degree or of comparable status . 
These figures may be subject to some parental means test , but we are not arguing about that at the moment . 
The maximum grant which an authority awards to students who qualify for full grant is £180 , plus travel , in Kent ; £80 in Devon ; £125 in West Ham ; £115 , plus travel in West Hartlepools ; £163 in Warwickshire ; there is no day grant in Pembrokeshire if the student is living at home , but there is for those taking a residential course ; the figure is £120 in Cardiff . 
In all of those cases tuition fees are paid by the authority , but that practice is not universal . 
My own authority of Flint , I am sorry to say , does not pay tuition fees . 
One has to apply , but one is lucky if one gets tuition fees paid . 
Those taking full-time courses at technical colleges and living away from home — and this happens in many parts of the country where children from rural areas have to go into residence — again have fantastic discrepancies in the amounts which their authorities are prepared to award to them . 
For the same group of authorities the residential maxima are : £260 in Kent ; between £114 and £180 in Devon ; £185 in West Ham ; £175 plus travel in West Hartlepools ; £218 in Warwickshire ; £183 in Pembrokeshire ; £210 in Cardiff . 
What possible justice is there in having all those full-time students at technical colleges treated like that ? 
What possible defence is there for treating university students under Clause 1 as they are treated and technical college students under Clause 2 in another way ? 
We may have something to say about discretion being given for part-time students , or for those taking what might be called hobby courses in further education establishments , but there is no conceivable ground on which the Minister can argue that he can do for university students what he is proposing to do while refusing to do it for full-time technical college students , or university students taking a course of less than three years ' duration . 
The Parliamentary Secretary has only one excuse and it is that he is afraid to pay the cost . 
As he well knows we have had a letter from local authorities saying that by Clause 1 they are being made virtually the Minister 's agents and that their discretion is being so much diminished that in effect they will simply administer a national service and the total expenditure in those circumstances ought to be a national charge and not paid out of the rates . 
They had great hopes , and as the years have gone by they have had a certain feeling of disappointment . 
I shall touch upon some of the reasons for that disappointment and enquire what we should do to make improvement in the general conduct of this branch of our affairs . 
The noble Lord , Lord Strang , has done splendid work — and I gladly add my tribute to those paid by others — as Chairman for so long of the National Parks Commission ; and he has had a hard row to hoe . 
He has done that in those intervals allowed to him while composing his important work , recently published , which I confess I have not yet read , but fully intend to read , laying out the historical permanence of British foreign policy over a long period . 
In addition to all that scholarly use of his leisure he has found time for the daily handling of the problems of our national parks , and I am sure that we are all grateful to him . 
As has been said by my noble friend beside me , the noble Lord , Lord Strang , has had some splendid colleagues . 
My noble friend Lord Lawson , whose political life was much intertwined with mine , asks me to say that he is very sorry he can not be here to-day to listen to , and take part in , our debate . 
The reason is his wife 's ill-health , and I am sure the sympathy of all of us will go out to both of them . 
My noble friend Lord Lawson acted as Deputy Chairman of the National Parks Commission in the early years , and I remember that some of us thought it a good tactical move to have an ex-Secretary of State for War in that important position ; because we felt it might be possible for him to chase away generals from certain areas of which I am thinking , in County Durham and Teesdale where , it seemed to us — and this was apprehended elsewhere — that they had requisitioned rather more land for use as artillery ranges than was reasonably justifiable . 
Indeed , there were rumours at that time , in that area on the Pennine Way , that there might be a clash between the troops and the embattled contingents of ramblers from Durham and Yorkshire . 
But all that was avoided , and I believe that the diplomatic gifts as well as the military experience of my noble friend Lord Lawson contributed both to the maintenance of order and good will and to the opening of the Pennine Way throughout its length , which was something we were then very keen should be done . 
May I say a word or two now on some of the points which arise out of the work of the National Parks Commission ? 
To some extent I shall be touching on points already made by previous speakers ; but the first and primary point is , of course , finance . 
The National Parks Commission have been left practically destitute by the Treasury under successive Governments , and I agree very much with what was said in some detail by the noble Earl who preceded me . 
We thought ( and I am one of those who were thinking , talking and planning how all this should be organised ) that the National Parks Commission were a sufficiently important body , endowed with sufficiently important powers , to deserve to receive a direct annual grant from the Treasury , to be administered by the Chairman of the Commission and his colleagues in accordance with the requirements of the Act ; and it was very disappointing to find that the Hobhouse Committee , to which the noble Earl referred in detail , fully agreed about not naming any special figure . 
The figure need not be a large one but a direct annual grant from the Treasury would help a great deal . 
I am quite sure that , so long as such a grant is lacking , the framework at the foundation will not be right . 
Therefore I hope that before long the present Minister of Housing and Local Government who , as we have heard , will be receiving many recommendations , will settle this point , in particular , so that the noble Lord , Lord Strang , and his successors will have something to distribute , at their discretion and , as the noble Earl suggested , between different national park areas . 
I think this a very important though essentially a simple matter . 
I once threw out a hint which has occasionally troubled the waters since . 
In my Budget speech of 1946 , when I was Chancellor of the Exchequer ( though we had no national parks at that time , for it was more than three years before the Act was passed ) , I spoke well of national parks , as I have done on other occasions . 
I threw out a hint ( my idea would have required further legislation , which in the result was not forthcoming ) that some financial assistance might be given from the National Land Fund , which was set up in that year , to national parks . 
I had in mind a certain once-for-all contribution of a capital nature that might probably be made . 
But all that , I regret to say , came to nothing . 
Although enthusiasts of national parks in another place , and perhaps here too , have from time to time returned to that charge , I regret to say that neither from that source nor from any other so far have national parks been reasonably financed . 
This is so simple a point that I hope very much that this defect may soon be remedied . 
I wish now to say a word about the long-distance routes . 
When I was younger I used to be what is now called a keen " hiker " . 
I like walking considerable distances in beautiful country and in agreeable company , and I was very keen on this concept of the long-distance routes . 
They began , as your Lordships know , with the Pennine Way , which happened to run right through the constituency I then had the honour to represent , and also through a very beautiful area full of wild fell country and many lovely waterfalls and other natural beauties . 
It is a matter of regret — and those are the actual words of the Commission themselves , and I think a very moderate form of words — that those routes are not yet completely open . 
After the approval , if I remember the figure rightly , of some seven proposed long-distance routes ( it was six or seven , or something of that order ) , which meant a great deal of hard work for the Commission and in surveying on the spot , even now , more than ten years after this work began , none of these long-distance routes is yet completely open to walkers or to horsemen in these beautiful areas . 
I understand that the reason for this very slow advance is simple : it is that there are no effective powers vested in the Commission for compulsory purchase , where necessary , of rights of way or rights of access at given points along these routes where access and rights of way do not now exist . 
I understand that there is a lot of detail that could be talked about here — I am not going to talk about it — concerning the relative powers of different local authorities and whether the Commission should have such powers vested in them , or whether they should be distributed among various local authorities . 
On that matter I do not express an opinion . 
I merely say that the remedy should be very simple , and it can be covered , I think , by the general formula used just now : there should be effective powers of compulsory purchase operated under the authority of the Commission in all cases where we still have not cleared the road , whether along the Pennine Way or Offa 's Dyke or any of these long-distance routes . 
I am sure that there are great numbers of the younger and healthier and fitter citizens of this country who would appreciate very much the opportunity of extending their journeys by foot or on horseback — because these routes are for riders on horseback , too — along the bridle paths and quiet ways and well away from roads heavily crowded with motor and other vehicles . 
I hope that here , too , early action can be taken to amend the law in this regard and give the Commission power to carry out what was always regarded as a central and essential part of their mandate . 
It is sometimes said — indeed , the noble Lord , Lord Strang , himself said it in a speech which was quite properly publicised in the Report of the Commission — that there is perhaps a certain conflict in the Act setting up the Commission : two conflicting aims . 
It is often said that the duty of the Commission is , on the one hand , to preserve and enhance natural beauty , and on the other , to provide and improve facilities for public enjoyment of the parks . 
I do not myself believe that there is any serious or deep conflict there . 
I think we can achieve both aims by an application of reasonable give and take and , where necessary , consultation . 
I will touch upon that point again in a moment . 
I will say , first , a word ( this point has been mentioned before ) about the first aim : the preservation and enhancement of natural beauty . 
I am glad to hear it said — and I have no reason to doubt the truth of what is said — that there is here no real conflict between the Forestry Commission , of which I have been for many years a strong supporter , and others . 
I think that the Forestry Commission have done a grand job which was never done until they were set up , but I will not develop that point now , although on another occasion I may be tempted to . 
But there has , I think , occasionally been a little potential ill-will between the Forestry Commission and those associated with the open air societies and the national parks . 
There has been a certain emotion in the background about cone-bearing trees ; and I will return to that in a moment . 
I am very glad to hear , however , that , in terms of practical politics now ( my noble friend said so and I think that the noble Earl also repeated it ) , consultation proceeds agreeably between the various interests concerned : the park authorities , whether the central Parks Commission or the planning authorities for particular parks , with the Forestry Commission and also with timber growers and the Landowners ' Association . 
There are three or four bodies concerned . 
I am delighted to hear that these bodies are getting on well together and can settle agreeably any disputes that arise with regard to the general problem of the preservation and enhancement of natural beauty , with particular reference to all this debatable afforestation . 
I will say a word or two , but not more , about afforestation . 
I am a great devotee of afforestation , and I often recall the great saying of Robert Louis Stevenson , that trees are the most civil society . 
In many moods and in many places that great thought is borne in upon me . 
I personally have had great pleasure through my life in passing very happy hours and days among beautiful woodlands and trees , both in this country and overseas . 
But Robert Louis Stevenson did not discriminate . 
He said , " trees " and he made no qualification or classification . 
Trees , he said , are the most civil society . 
He did not say , " Trees other than whatever it may be you are suspicious of when you see it growing " ; he did not say , " All trees other than conifers . " 
I am always recalling that when I was a little boy I learnt that to plant a tree and , still more , to care for it when you have planted it , was a good deed which would leave your heritage better than when you found it . 
I learnt that then and I have believed it ever since , and I think it is still true . 
We in this country have , as is well known , a smaller percentage of our national area under trees of any kind than has any other country in Europe — barely 6 per cent. , if I remember the figure aright — and I am very anxious , as a matter of national policy and national interest , to see the afforestation of this country carried further , with appropriate regard being had to soils and other matters , to what will grow and what will not , and so on . 
13 . 
The Appellants , immediately after the determination of the appeal , declared to us their dissatisfaction therewith as being erroneous in point of law and in due course required us to state a Case for the opinion of the High Court pursuant to the Finance Act , 1937 , Fifth schedule , Part 2 , Paragraph 4 , and the Income Tax Act , 1952 , Section 64 , which Case we have stated and do sign accordingly . 
14 . 
The question of law for the opinion of the High Court is whether the sum of £4,072 referred to in paragraph 2 hereof was an amount applied for the benefit of Mr. Hawke within the meaning of Section 36(1) ( c ) of the Finance Act , 1947 . 
R. W. Quayle 
N. F. Rowe 
Commissioners for the Special Purposes of the Income Tax Acts . 
Turnstile House , 
94-99 , High Holborn , 
London , W.C.1 . 
5th October , 1959 . 
The case came before Cross , J. , in the Chancery Division on 13th July , 1960 , when judgment was given in favour of the Crown , with costs . 
Sir Lynn Ungoed-Thomas , Q.C. , and Mr. Alan Orr appeared as Counsel for the Crown , and Mr. P. J. Brennan for the Company . 
Cross , J. — This case concerns the Profits Tax liability of the respondent Company , H. Dunning & Co. ( 1946 ) , Ltd. , for two chargeable accounting periods , 1st March , 1955 , to 31st October , 1955 , and 1st November , 1955 , to 29th February , 1956 . 
The question arises in this way . 
The Company was incorporated in 1946 , and carries on the business of light engineering . 
It is director-controlled , within the meaning of the Profits Tax legislation . 
A Mr. Hawke has been a director of the Company since its incorporation , though he is not a whole-time service director , and he has been at all material times a member of the Company holding one £1 share out of the 1,000 issued shares . 
In 1951 Mr. Hawke invented a special type of " cable gland " for engineering purposes and obtained patent protection for this invention some time in 1952 . 
On 31st December , 1954 , he entered into an agreement with the Company whereby he granted to the Company a licence for a period of years to manufacture and to sell the patented article , and the Company covenanted during the continuance of the licence to pay him a commission of £7 10s. per cent . 
of the selling price of each patented article . 
There was provision for the termination of the agreement before the expiry of the period , and it was in fact terminated in September , 1955 . 
It is found in the Case that that was a perfectly genuine commercial agreement under which the Company got full consideration for the payments which they had to make to Mr. Hawke . 
The total of the payments which were made under the agreement for the period from 1st March , 1955 , to its termination in September , 1955 , was £4,072 , and the whole question at issue is whether or not these payments were " distributions " by the Company within the meaning of Section 36 of the Finance Act , 1947 . 
If they were distributions , then , on the assumption which hitherto has been made that they would not be deductible for the purpose of ascertaining the gross relevant distribution for the purpose of Section 35 , the amount of Profits Tax payable by the Company for the accounting periods in question would be larger than it would be if the payments were not distributions . 
Section 36(1) is in these terms : 
" Subject to the provisions of the next succeeding subsection , wherever — ( a ) any amount is distributed directly or indirectly by way of dividend or cash bonus to any person ; or ( b ) assets are distributed in kind to any person ; or ( c ) where the trade or business is carried on by a body corporate the directors whereof have a controlling interest therein , " 
— which is the case here — 
"an amount is applied , whether by way of remuneration , loans or otherwise , for the benefit of any person , there shall be deemed for the purposes of the last preceding section to be a distribution to that person of that amount or , as the case may be , of an amount equal to the value of those assets : " 
— then there is a proviso — 
" Provided that no sum applied in repaying a loan or in reducing the share capital of the person carrying on the trade or business shall be treated as a distribution . " 
That proviso certainly seems to suggest that , if it were not there , a sum applied by the Company in repaying a loan would be a distribution . 
I do not think I need read Sub-section ( 2 ) , but Sub-section ( 3 ) contains special provisions in regard to loans , to this effect : 
" Where — ( a ) a loan has been treated as part of the gross relevant distributions to proprietors for a chargeable accounting period ; and ( b ) as a result , the amount of tax payable for that period has been increased , " 
then , if the loan is repaid , the gross relevant distributions to the proprietors are to be treated as reduced by the amount corresponding to the increase caused by treating the loan as a distribution . 
The question which I have to decide is , of course , whether these payments were amounts applied by the Company for the benefit of Mr. Hawke " by way of remuneration , loans or otherwise " . 
They were certainly not " remuneration " or "loans " ; but do they come under the head of " or otherwise " ? 
They were , as I have said , payments made under a commercial agreement for full consideration given by Mr. Hawke to the Company in the form of a grant to the Company of a licence to exploit his patent . 
If the words had been simply " an amount is applied for the benefit of any person " , I should have thought it very doubtful whether this Sub-section would have covered payments , whether of capital or income , under an ordinary commercial agreement . 
According to the ordinary use of the English language , a payment for which you have given full consideration is not an amount applied for your benefit by the payer . 
But , of course , the words are not simply " an amount is applied for the benefit of any person " ; there are the additional words " whether by way of remuneration , loans or otherwise " . 
In Commissioners of Inland Revenue v. Chappie , Ltd. , 34 T.C. 509 , the Court of Appeal had to consider the case of loans made by a company to one of its members , an associated company , on what were found to be ordinary commercial terms , and the Court , affirming the decision of Danckwerts , J. , held that such a loan was a distribution within the meaning of this Section . 
It has been argued by Mr. Brennan in this case that the decision turned simply on the special provisions made in regard to loans . 
The Section , of course , refers to loans expressly , and there is in Sub-section ( 3 ) a provision for adjusting the matter if and when the loan is repaid . 
In the case of loans , therefore , it is particularly difficult to avoid the conclusion that they count as distributions even if they are made on commercial terms ; but I do not regard the decision in the Chappie case as throwing no light on the construction of the rest of this Sub-section . 
The members of the Court of Appeal , as I read their judgments , definitely rejected the idea that there had to be an element of bounty in a payment in order to bring it into the scope of the Section . 
It is true that they were dealing with loans , but they were construing the Section as a whole . 
The Section expressly refers to remuneration as well as loans . 
Remuneration does not normally contain any element of bounty , yet the Sub-section says that all payments by way of remuneration are to be treated as distributions . 
It is , therefore , very difficult to say that what falls under the heading " or otherwise " as opposed to what falls under the heading " remuneration " or " loans " must contain an element of bounty . 
Then it is said : " If you read the Sub-section as widely as that , any payment made by a company , whether it be an income or a capital payment , and whether there is consideration for it or not , will be a distribution . 
If the company buys a motor-car from a member for a proper price , even that will be a distribution . " 
Well , it appears to me that the members of the Court of Appeal in the Chappie case were aware that that might be the result of their decision . 
That is shown by what was said by Mr. Tucker and Jenkins , L.J. , at the end of the case ( at page 527 of this report ) . 
But , of course , it is true to say that the decision itself related only to loans . 
The Section was considered again a little later by Harman , J. , in Commissioners of Inland Revenue v. Lactagol , Ltd. , 35 T.C. 230 . 
There the company had made a lump-sum payment to a director-member , Mr. Adams , in consideration of a covenant that after his term of service with the company ceased he would not compete with the company . 
So for a lump-sum payment the company got the benefit of a capital asset in the form of Mr. Adams 's covenant . 
Harman , J. , was impressed , as anybody must be , with the absurdity of treating such a payment — a capital payment for a capital asset under a genuine commercial transaction — as being an amount applied for the benefit of the payee . 
He was not prepared to accept the view that in the Chappie case the Court of Appeal had decided that all payments were distributions . 
He thought that a line must be drawn somewhere , and influenced , I think , by the fact that this Act taxes profits , he drew the line at payments of capital for capital assets . 
Whether it is really logical to draw any line or to draw it there it is not for me to say . 
If I were faced with a similar case to that which was before Harman , J. , I should , of course , follow his decision . 
But the case before me is not one of a payment of capital for a capital asset , but of recurring payments of income . 
I do not therefore think that decision of Harman , J. , covers this case , and I feel myself at liberty to reach the conclusion at which , but for his decision , I would have arrived without hesitation in view of the decision of the Court of Appeal in the Chappie case . 
I should have said that the Commissioners decided this case in favour of the taxpayer on the ground that the Chappie case dealt only with loans , and that this case was covered by the Lactagol case . 
For the reasons I have tried to give , I think that their decision was wrong , and therefore I shall allow the appeal . 
Sir Lynn Ungoed-Thomas. — Your Lordship will , then , allow the appeal with costs ? 
Cross , J. — Yes . 
Mr. P. J. Brennan . 
— Would your Lordship hear me on that point about costs ? 
Cross , J. — Yes . 
Mr. Brennan . 
— My Lord , the Lactagol case was decided some years ago , and this matter has been left in a state of grave uncertainty ; and my clients went before the Commissioners on the basis of the Lactagol case . 
They succeeded before the Commissioners , and I submit that it might be a proper case where your Lordship might make an Order whereby each side would bear its own costs . 
Sir Lynn Ungoed-Thomas. — My Lord , it is the same sort of difficulty that arises in any case where there has been a decision upon which one side relies . 
Cross , J. — I think I must allow the Crown to have their costs in this case . 
I quite understand that the Commissioners were in a difficulty in view of the two authorities , but I have taken a different view of Harman , J. 's decision to that taken by them , and I think the ordinary result must follow . 
Sir Lynn Ungoed-Thomas. — And would your Lordship make a declaration ? 
Cross , J. — Yes . 
There is no question of figures , is there ? 
THE INDUSTRIAL COURT ( 2846 ) ENGINEERING INDUSTRY Aluminium Wire and Cable Company Limited — Clerical Workers — Claim for application thereto of wages increases of a specified Agreement Parties : — 
Clerical and Administrative Workers ' Union 
and 
Aluminium Wire and Cable Company Limited Terms of Reference : — " Proposed by the Trade Union 
That the wage increases agreed between the Engineering and Allied Employers ' Federation and the Clerical and Administrative Workers ' Union on 6th January , 1961 , shall be applied to members of the Union employed by Aluminium Wire and Cable Company Limited , Swansea , with effect from 9th January , 1961 . 
Proposed by the Employer 
Whether the wage increases agreed between the Engineering and Allied Employers ' Federation and the Clerical and Administrative Workers ' union on 6th January , 1961 , should be applied to members of the Union employed by Aluminium Wire and Cable Company limited , Swansea , with effect from 9th January , 1961 . " 
1 . 
The matter was referred to the Industrial Court for settlement in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Courts Act , 1919 . 
The Parties were heard in Cardiff on the 9th May , 1961 . 
2 . 
By an Agreement reached between the Clerical and Administrative Workers ' Union ( hereinafter referred to as "the Union " ) , and the Engineering Employers ' Federation on the 6th January , 1961 , increases which the Federation were prepared to recommend to be paid by member firms to their clerical workers with salaries up to and including £775 { 6per annum in the case of males and £580 in the case of females , as from the 9th January , 1961 , were determined . 
The said increases are set out in the Appendix hereto . 
The Agreement also contained the following clause : — 
" The recommendation is made subject to the understanding that firms may take into account any general increase already given to clerical workers , whether as a result of the National Wages Agreement reached with the Manual Workers ' Union on 21st December , 1960 , or in anticipation of the settlement of this claim . " 
The dispute concerns 83 clerical workers employed by the Aluminium Wire and Cable Company Limited ( hereinafter referred as " the Company " ) and the Union claim that the above increases should be applied to them with effect from the 9th January , 1961 . 
The matter was first raised on the 20th January , 1961 , when the Union having received a report that the Company had not implemented the terms of the Agreement , wrote to them . 
The Union subsequently sought the assistance of the Industrial Relations Officer ( Wales ) , under whose Chairmanship a meeting took place on the 2nd March , 1961 . 
The Company then stated that they were exempt from the terms of the Agreement by reason of a notice issued to each of their clerical workers in their pay packet on the 5th December , 1960 , when certain increases in pay became effective . 
The matter was thereupon referred to the Court for decision . 
3 . 
On behalf of the Union it was stated that they had when necessary met the Company regarding matters affecting wages and conditions of clerical workers , and whilst the Company were not in membership of the Engineering Employers ' Federation , there was an understanding that they should follow the Engineering Industry . 
In that understanding the Union had negotiated with them arrangements for a shorter working week , the salary limits under which clerical workers received payment for overtime and the rota under which Saturday mornings were worked . 
It was submitted that the terms under which a company could claim exemption from implementing the Agreement of the 6th January , 1961 , were clearly understood between the Engineering Employers ' Federation and the Union ; that the term " general increase " was understood between them and that increases in salaries consequent on a review of salaries undertaken by the Company which took effect from the 3rd October , 1960 , did not constitute a " general increase " . 
The fact that a number of the clerical workers concerned had not received any increase at all and the lack of pattern in the increases awarded by the Company were indicative of a merit assessment on the Company 's valuation of each employee . 
It was contended that the increases paid on the 5th December , 1960 could not have been paid as a result of the manual workers ' settlement , which was agreed more than a fortnight after the increases had been paid , or that the review , which the Company stated had taken several months to complete , could have been in anticipation of the settlement of a class for clerical workers which the Union had not yet presented to the Company . 
The Court 's attention was drawn to the fact that on the 3rd October , 1960 ( the retrospective date to which the Company 's increase became effective ) the Union had not presented their case to the Engineering Employers ' Federation . 
Furthermore , the National Wages Agreement with the Manual Workers ' Union was not reached until the 21st December , 1960 . 
It was submitted that the clerical workers employed by the Company should receive the increases set out in the Appendix . 
The Union maintained that previous differences referred to the Industrial Disputes Tribunal under the Industrial Disputes Order , 1951 , which resulted in Awards Nos. 248 , 813 and 840 in favour of the Union , endorsed that view . 
4 . 
On behalf of the Company it was stated that whilst they were not members of the Engineering and Allied Employers ' South Wales Association , it had been their practice to have regard to recommendations of the Engineering Employers ' Federation when reviewing salaries towards the end of each year . 
Thus the Company had given increases to their clerical workers with effect from the 1st January , 1959 , comparable with increases recommended by the Federation in October , 1958 . 
They had also given increases with effect from the 1st January , 1960 , and a reduction of working hours as from the 2nd May , 1960 , even though the federation had not recommended any salary increases at that time . 
During the latter half of 1960 , it was stated , the Company decided on a major review of salaries of their staff in the course of which they became aware of a claim submitted by the Union to the Federation in respect of their clerical workers . 
Accordingly , when such employees were advised in December , 1960 , of increases granted ( which were made retrospective to the beginning of October , 1960 ) , the Company entered a caveat to cover possible increases which might subsequently be recommended by the Federation , notice of which was contained in the letter addressed to each employee at the time . 
Early in January , 1961 , when the Company received details of the increases recommended by the Federation , comparison with the increases already granted to their clerical workers revealed some differences and any deficiencies were made good as from the 2nd January , 1961 , although the Federation 's recommendations did not take effect until a week later . 
The Company had not specifically agreed and had not given any undertaking to the Union to follow the Engineering Industry . 
It was submitted that increases in salaries granted to all staff when salaries were reviewed were a " general increase " . 
The review of salaries was described as a major review as the level of salaries being paid to senior staff having university degrees or other special qualifications was being specially examined , and it was spread over a long period and completed only after it became known that the Union were negotiating with the Federation in respect of clerical workers . 
It was also submitted that all the clerical workers concerned had received increases no less than those recommended in the National Agreement of the 6th January , 1961 , between the Engineering Employers ' Federation and the Union . 
In the Company 's views the Awards of the Industrial Disputes Tribunal referred to by the Union were made in different circumstances and could not be taken as precedents . 
In conclusion the Company submitted that they observed the spirit of all Agreements between the Engineering Employers ' Federation and the Union , and in support of this gave details of the conditions of employment of their staff . 
5 . 
The Court , having given careful consideration to the evidence and submissions of the Parties , Award that , with effect from the 20th January , 1961 , the Company shall apply to the clerical workers concerned the wage increases agreed between the Engineering Employers ' Federation and the Union on the 6th January , 1961 . 
H. LLOYD-WILLIAMS , Chairman . 
W. LEWIS CLARKE . 
G. B. THORNEYCROFT . 
I have submitted precedents over two centuries . 
We believe those precedents to be valid . 
May we ask whether you would be good enough further to consider your Ruling and indicate on what occasions and under what circumstances it shall apply and whether you will consider the precedents and previous Rulings before a new ruling is established ? 
Mr. Speaker : I have said that I will look at what the right hon. Gentleman put to me and , of course , I will . 
But I do not propose to say anything else about it , unless I find that my Ruling was wrong . 
Mr. Gordon Walker : In the interests of ourselves and our successors , who might be misled , may I suggest that you later give us the reasons which led you to think that these proceedings were not invalidated ? 
Our successors and ourselves might otherwise be misled about what does or does not constitute a House in other circumstances . 
If your Ruling were given just like that , and without reasons , it might be held to go much further than you intend . 
I fully understand and appreciate your desire not to give reasons in general , but on this occasion you might consider it worth your while to do so . 
Mr. Speaker : If it be thought that there might be any dubiety — that is the word — about the matter , I will say that my Ruling applies to nothing at all except to circumstances where the Mace is not in the right place and when there is a suspension under Standing Order No. 24 . 
Sir H. Butcher : You have been good enough , Mr. Speaker , to say that on behalf of the House you will conduct a certain amount of research into our precedents . 
If , as a by-product of such research , it is found that in recent years the habit of discussing certain Rulings with the Chair has increased , may I ask you not to hesitate to say so , so that we may conform to the more orderly methods of our predecessors ? 
Mr. Speaker : I am obliged to the hon. Member . 
Since I came into the service of the House I have been trying gradually to get round to that position and I have had much help from the House . 
Mr. Denis Howell : On a point of order . 
Would you also take into account , Mr. Speaker , the new procedure of the Patronage Secretary intervening in our affairs — 
Mr. Speaker : In no circumstances can the hon. Member have a right to address me about that now . 
Mr. Donnelly : On a point of order . 
May I venture to suggest that when the Minister of Works investigates the microphones , he considers not only new microphones but the possibility of reverting to the pre-war practice of not having microphones , which might help the proceedings of the House generally ? 
Mr. Speaker : I am obliged to the hon. Member . 
I am sure that all the technical aspects will be considered , including , I hope , some examination of the microphones which we had before and which seemed to be satisfactory . 
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN ( RETURN FROM WEST AFRICA ) 
The Prime Minister ( Mr. Harold Macmillan ) : I beg to move , 
That an humble Address be presented to Her Majesty , assuring Her Majesty of the loyal and affectionate welcome of this House to Her Majesty , on the occasion of Her return from Her tour of West Africa with His Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh . 
I am sure that this Motion will commend itself to the House . 
A month ago , on the eve of Her Majesty 's departure for West Africa , the House joined me in sending her our warmest good wishes for the success of her tour and a safe return . 
Now the Queen is safely back with us , I venture to say that of the many journeys which she and His Royal Highness have so tirelessly undertaken , none has been crowned with greater success than this . 
This means that a man now reaching 65 years of age can earn a flat-rate pension of £3 18s. 6d. a week — or up to £6 4s. a week if he is married — if he works until he is 70 and an insured woman can earn a similar pension if she works until she is 65 . 
The above are the increases for contributions paid after 2nd August , 1959 . 
For every 25 contributions paid for weeks up to 2nd August 1959 , increases are at the rate of 1s. 6d. ( 1s. for the wife ) . 
On widowhood any 1s. increases earned for the wife after 16th July , 1951 , are paid at the 1s. 6d. rate . 
On top of these increases of flat-rate pension you may also get extra graduated pension if you do not retire at age 65 ( 60 for a woman ) . 
This can arise in two ways . 
Firstly , if you are 65 ( 60 for a woman ) you work for an employer and are paid more than £9 in any week you will ( unless you are contracted out ) pay graduated contributions . 
These will count in the ordinary way for graduated pension . 
Secondly , the graduated part of the pension which you would have drawn had you retired at age 65 ( 60 for a woman ) will be treated as if it were a graduated contribution paid by you and your employer . 
This means that half of it will count as an extra contribution by you towards further units of graduated pension . 
Examples showing how the increases work for people now approaching pension age with various earnings are shown on page 31. 47 The earnings rule 
Because the pension is for people who have retired , it is reduced if the pensioner earns more than a certain amount while he is under 70 ( 65 for a woman ) . 
The rule is that the pension is reduced by 6d. for every complete shilling of net earnings between £3 10s. and £4 10s. a week , and by 1s. for every complete shilling over £4 10s . 
A wife 's pension is similarly reduced if she earns over £3 10s. a week . 
A pensioner under 70 ( 65 for a woman ) who earns £3 11s. or more in a week must declare the amount earned to the local Pensions and National Insurance Office without delay . 
48 How and when to claim Retirement Pension 
Shortly before you reach pension age , whether or not you intend to retire , you should apply for your right to a pension to be decided . 
The local Pensions and National Insurance Office usually sends an application form to each insured person . 
But if you have not got one three months before you reach age 65 ( 60 for a woman ) you should enquire at your local office . 
Before you can be awarded a pension you must give notice in writing of the date of your retirement . 
You can do this up to 4 months in advance . 
If a man and wife both wish to claim a pension , each must give notice even if the wife is doing no work besides her own domestic duties . 
If your claim , or your notice of retirement , is late , you may lose benefit . 
49 Cancelling retirement 
If you have once retired and decide to return to work you can , instead of having your pension reduced for earnings , cancel your retirement and qualify for a bigger pension , as described in paragraph 46 , when you finally retire or reach the age of 70 ( 65 for a woman ) . 
To do this you and your wife will both have to give up your pension for the time being and you will have to pay full national insurance contributions while you are working . 
WIDOW 'S BENEFITS 
For the first 13 weeks of widowhood there is a benefit called widow 's allowance . 
After that , payment of widow 's benefit depends on individual circumstances such as family responsibilities and age . 
50 Widow 's Allowance 
The standard rate of the allowance is 80s. a week for the first 13 weeks of widowhood , with increases of 25s. a week for the eldest dependent child and 17s. a week for each other dependent child . 
The allowance can be paid to a woman widowed over 60 years of age only if her husband was not receiving a retirement pension . 
The general position of widows over 60 is explained in paragraph 57. 51 Widowed Mother 's Allowance 
A widow left with a dependent child ( see paragraph 22 ) will usually get a widowed mother 's allowance when she has finished drawing her widow 's allowance . 
The standard weekly rate of widowed mother 's allowance is 82s. 6d. for the widow and her eldest child , with increases of 17s. a week for each other dependent child . 
The allowance will last as long as the widow has a dependent child in her family . 
The allowance is provided to help the widowed mother who , because of her children , can not readily support herself by working . 
If she does work her allowance is , therefore , reduced by 6d. for every complete shilling of net earnings between £5 and £6 a week and by 1s. for every complete shilling over £6 , but it can not be reduced by more than the widow 's personal part of the allowance — usually 57s. 6d. a week — however much she earns . 
A widowed mother earning £5 1s. or more in any week must declare her earnings to the local Pensions and National Insurance Office without delay . 
52 Widowed Mother 's Personal Allowance 
A widow whose son or daughter has left school and does not qualify as a dependent child ( see paragraph 22 ) but is still under the age of 18 and living with her , can get a widowed mother 's personal allowance , usually 57s. 6d. a week , when her widow 's allowance or widowed mother 's allowance ends . 
This allowance is subject to the same earnings rule as the full widowed mother 's allowance . 
53 Widow 's Pension 
The standard weekly rate of widow 's pension is 57s. 6d. and a widow may get it in either of the following ways : 
( a ) when widow 's allowance ends , if she was over 50 years of age when her husband died and had been married for 3 years or more ; 
( b ) when widowed mother 's allowance ends , if she is then over 50 years of age ( 40 if her husband died before 4th February , 1957 ) and 3 years have passed since the date of her marriage . 
The pension is provided to help the older widow who can not readily support herself by taking up full-time employment . 
If she is able to work , her widow 's pension is , therefore , reduced by 6d. for every complete shilling of net earnings between £3 10s. and £4 10s. a week and by 1s. for every complete shilling over £4 10s . 
A widow earning £3 11s. or more in any week is required to notify the local Pensions and National Insurance Office without delay . 
There are special rules which enable a widow who does not qualify for the widow 's pension or qualifies only for the 10s. pension ( see paragraph 55 ) to get unemployment or sickness benefit if she is unable to find work or is unable to work because of illness when the widow 's allowance or widowed mother 's allowance ends . 
54 What are the contribution conditions ? 
Only the husband 's contributions count for widow 's benefit ; the contribution conditions can not be fulfilled on the widow 's own insurance record . 
There are two contribution conditions : 
First — the husband must normally have paid at least 156 contributions of any Class since he last became insured . 
Second — for benefit to be paid at the standard rate the husband must have paid or have been credited with a yearly average of 50 contributions . 
If this average is below 50 , but not less than 13 , benefit is paid at a reduced rate . 
55 Widow 's 10s . 
Pension 
Certain widows have had preserved for them rights equivalent to those which they might have expected under the Acts in force before July 1948 — the " 10s. pension " . 
The widows in question are those whose marriage was before 5th July , 1948 , and whose husbands were insured under the old scheme immediately before that date . 
57 How and when to claim Widow 's Benefit 
A person registering a death can get a special death certificate from the Registrar of Deaths . 
On the back of the certificate the widow can let her local Pensions and National Insurance Office know that she wishes to claim benefit . 
A form on which to claim will then be sent to her . 
The form can also be obtained from any local Pensions and National Insurance Office . 
If a claim is delayed more than three months after the husband 's death the widow may lose some benefit . 
Widow 's benefit stops if the widow remarries . 
57 Widows over 60 
Retirement pension is usually paid instead of widow 's pension to widows who are over 60 when widowed . 
Other widows qualify for a retirement pension on their own insurance when they retire at or after reaching age 60 ; there are special rules to make it easier for them to qualify . 
But a widow entitled to widow 's allowance , because her husband was not receiving a retirement pension , or to a widowed mother 's allowance when over 60 will be paid that allowance if , as is usually the case , it is more favourable to her than the flat-rate retirement pension . 
The widow of a man who has paid graduated contributions will get a graduated addition to her flat-rate retirement pension equal to one-half the graduated part of the pension which her husband had earned or was drawing when he died . 
This will be on top of any graduated pension which she herself has earned ( see paragraph 45 ) . 
If she becomes a widow when under 60 , she will receive any graduated pension to which she is entitled when she qualifies for her retirement pension . 
A widow may also be entitled to an increase of retirement pension because of deferred retirement ( see paragraph 46 ) . 
CHILD 'S SPECIAL ALLOWANCE 58 What is a Child 's Special Allowance ? 
This allowance is available to a woman whose marriage has been dissolved or annulled , and is paid on the death of her former husband if she has a child to whose support he was contributing at least 5s. a week in cash or its equivalent . 
The allowance can not be paid if the woman has remarried . 
The amount of the allowance depends on the amount the former husband was paying towards the child 's support at his death subject to a maximum of 25s. for the first child and 17s. for each other child in addition to Family Allowances . 
The contribution conditions are the same as for widow 's benefit ( see paragraph 54 ) , except that the allowance is not reduced where the former husband 's yearly average of paid or credited contributions is below 50 although the allowance can not be paid if the average is below 13 . 
The allowance should be claimed within three months of the former husband 's death , otherwise some benefit may be lost . 
A claim form can be obtained through any local Pensions and National Insurance Office . 
GUARDIAN 'S ALLOWANCE 59 For orphan children 
A guardian 's allowance is a payment of 32s. 6d. a week to the person who takes into his family an orphan child both of whose parents are dead . 
Special rules apply to the children of divorced parents , to adopted children , to illegitimate children and to children one of whose parents is missing at the time the other dies . 
One of the orphan 's parents must have been insured , but there is no requirement that any particular number of contributions should have been paid . 
The allowance should be claimed not later than 3 months after the child joins the family ; otherwise the guardian may lose some benefit . 
A claim form can be obtained from the local Pensions and National Insurance Office . 
A child for whom a guardian 's allowance is being paid can not count for the purpose of Family Allowances . 
DEATH GRANT 60 What is a Death Grant ? 
A death grant is a sum paid on the death of an insured person or of the wife , husband or child of an insured person . 
Thirty-six per cent . 
of our imports come from the Commonwealth ; but I think I am correct in saying that over 20 per cent . 
of metropolitan France 's imports come from territories having a special relationship with her . 
Be that as it may , the trade is of very great importance to the Commonwealth countries concerned . 
For example , among the dependent or newly independent countries , Mauritius sends 82 per cent . 
of her exports to the United Kingdom ; Sierra Leone 70 per cent. ; and Nigeria 51 per cent . 
Of the older Commonwealth countries , New Zealand is also heavily dependent on the United Kingdom market , sending 56 per cent . 
of her exports to us . 
The proportions of their exports which Australia , India and Ceylon send to the United Kingdom are of the order of 30 per cent . 
32 . 
On the assumption that there is general recognition of the need to devise satisfactory arrangements to protect vital interests of Commonwealth countries , and with this background in mind , I think it would be helpful to suggest in more detail how the problem might be split up into its different components , and how each of these might be treated . 
33 . 
I would like to begin with the less developed members of the Commonwealth and those territories which are still dependent . 
May I start by trying to describe briefly the nature and needs of these countries and territories ? 
Of the Dependent Territories some are moving towards independence and at least one , Tanganyika , will be an independent member of the Commonwealth by the time our negotiations are completed . 
For others we can not foresee , at any rate for some time to come , a constitutional position more advanced than that of internal self-government . 
Of the less developed countries which are already independent members of the Commonwealth , three — Ghana , Nigeria and Sierra Leone — are in Africa ; four — India , Pakistan , Ceylon and Malaya — are in Asia ; and one , Cyprus , is in Europe . 
Apart from Cyprus , Malta , Gibraltar and the Falkland Islands , all these countries and territories have tropical or sub-tropical climates . 
They nearly all produce tropical products and raw materials many of which are also produced by the countries and territories at present associated with the Community under Part 4 of the Treaty of Rome . 
Many of them are seeking to establish secondary industries in order to diversify their economies and reduce their very great dependence upon imports . 
India , Pakistan and Hong Kong are also exporters of certain manufactured goods ; and some others , such as Malta and the West Indies , hope to follow their example , though on a much smaller scale . 
34 . 
All these countries and territories attach importance to the preferences and duty-free entry which they enjoy in the United Kingdom market . 
There are a few other special arrangements , which are vital to certain of them . 
For some territories it is also of importance — in some cases of great importance — to be able to compete in the markets of the rest of Europe on equal terms with other exporters of similar products . 
They would certainly not understand if , as a result of becoming a Member of the Community , the United Kingdom were obliged to discriminate against them in favour of other non-European countries . 
Another feature of many of these countries and territories is that their need to encourage industrial development and their unavoidable reliance on indirect taxation for revenue makes it necessary for them to put tariffs on imports of manufactured goods . 
35 . 
In considering the problems which our entry into the Common Market would create for these countries and territories we have studied with great interest the arrangements laid down in Part 4 of the Treaty of Rome and in the related Convention for the Association with the E.E.C . 
of certain Overseas Countries and Territories with whom members of that Community previously had special relations . 
Some Commonwealth countries have expressed the opinion that the present arrangements for Association are not appropriate for independent states . 
But this view may not apply to the new arrangements when it is known what they will be . 
In any case we should like to see the less developed members of the Commonwealth , and our Dependent Territories , given the opportunity , if they so wish , to enter into Association with the Community on the same terms as those which will in future be available to the present Associated Overseas Countries and Territories . 
This is something we shall need to discuss , and we know that you are already at work on a review of the present arrangements for Association . 
Some Commonwealth countries may feel that some other arrangements might suit them better . 
We would not wish to prejudge any solutions they may decide to propose . 
36 . 
Association may , therefore , be a solution for the problems of many Commonwealth countries and territories . 
But for others it may not be possible . 
One way of dealing with the problems of those who are not associated would be to arrange for them to maintain unimpaired their rights of access to the United Kingdom market , in the same way as was done for Morocco 's trade with France , or for Surinam 's trade with Benelux , under the relevant Protocol to the Rome Treaty . 
But we recognise that this solution would not be applicable in all cases . 
Another method of proceeding would be to consider the problems on a commodity-by-commodity basis . 
Perhaps it would be helpful if I were to say something , at this point , about the main groups of commodities — tropical products , materials , manufactures and temperate foodstuffs . 
37 . 
Difficulties will arise over tropical products if one or more of the less-developed countries or territories of the Commonwealth do not enter into an appropriate form of Association with the Community . 
There does not appear to be any complete solution of such difficulties . 
But we see two alternative lines of approach . 
The first , which would be appropriate when not only equality of opportunity but also some measure of protection is essential , would be to grant free entry into the United Kingdom market alone for the Commonwealth country or territory which is not associated , and then to fix the common tariff of the enlarged Community at a level which would safeguard the interests both of that country and of the countries and territories associated with the Community . 
The second line of approach would be to fix a zero , or a very low , level for the common tariff . 
For a few important commodities we believe that it would be possible to do this without significant damage to the interests of the countries and territories associated with the Community . 
For example , tea is a commodity of great importance to India and Ceylon , and so is cocoa to Ghana . 
A zero common tariff would go a considerable way to meet the trade problems of those countries if they were not solved by Association . 
38 . 
Materials should not in general give rise to difficulties , as the common tariff on most of them is zero . 
There are , however , a few on which it is substantial . 
Five of them — aluminium , wood pulp , newsprint , lead and zinc — are of great importance to certain Commonwealth countries : on these five materials we would wish to seek a zero tariff . 
39 . 
Manufactures are , with a very few exceptions , imported duty-free into the United Kingdom both from the developed countries in the Commonwealth — Canada , Australia and New Zealand — and from the less developed Asian countries . 
Exporting industries in all these countries have been assisted in their development by free entry and the preferential position they have enjoyed in the United Kingdom . 
They would be seriously affected , not only by loss of preferences in our market , but also if their position were transformed into one in which the whole of their export trade was affected by reverse preferences in favour of the major industrial countries in Europe . 
Nevertheless we recognise that indefinite and unlimited continuation of free entry over the whole of this field may not be regarded as compatible with the development of the common market and we are willing to discuss ways of reconciling these two conflicting considerations . 
I believe that the problem is of manageable proportions . 
The trade in question is important to the Commonwealth countries concerned but it is not large in total in comparison with European trade . 
40 . 
The problem arises in a special form for manufactures from the less-developed countries , the so-called low cost manufactures . 
It occurs most acutely in relation to Asian Commonwealth countries and the Colony of Hong Kong . 
There is increasing international recognition that developed countries have a duty to facilitate international trade in this field as much as they can . 
But what the nature of the solution should be in the context of our joining the E.E.C. , must depend on how far it can be dealt with under arrangements for a Part 4 Association . 
You will probably agree that it would not be in the general interest that the United Kingdom should erect fresh tariff barriers to cut back such trade . 
41 . 
A major concern of the more fully developed members of the Commonwealth is their trade with us in temperate foodstuffs . 
Australia , New Zealand , and Canada , in particular , have vital interests in this field for which special arrangements must be made . 
42 . 
I should like to give you some figures to demonstrate how essential to these countries exports of temperate foodstuffs are . 
New Zealand 's total exports in 1959 were valued at £290 million . 
Of these £170 million worth , or about 60 per cent. , were temperate foodstuffs . 
£130 million worth , out of the total £170 million , came to the United Kingdom . 
The bulk of these exports to us consisted of mutton , lamb , butter and cheese . 
Over 90 per cent . 
of total exports of these commodities came to the United Kingdom . 
If in the future New Zealand can not , by one means or another , be assured of comparable outlets for them , her whole economy will be shattered . 
New Zealand 's problem is particularly acute because of her dependence on a relatively limited range of exports . 
But other Commonwealth commodity problems are the same in kind if not in degree . 
For example Australia , even though she exports a much more varied range of products , relies on temperate foodstuffs for 35 per cent . 
of her exports . 
The temperate foodstuffs she sends abroad are valued at £250 million : of these £100 million worth come to the United Kingdom . 
I hope that these figures will help to illustrate the problem . 
But figures alone can not tell the whole story . 
We must bear in mind the effect of what we do both on particular localities and on individual producers in Commonwealth countries . 
43 . 
To many Commonwealth countries the United Kingdom has both moral and contractual obligations , on the basis of which they have planned the development of their economies . 
I will mention only the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement with which you are all familiar since it is recognised in the International Sugar Agreement . 
It provides an assured basis for sugar production which is particularly important in the case of our Dependent Territories . 
44 . 
The problem therefore is to reconcile our obligations to the Commonwealth with the common agricultural policy as it evolves . 
We believe that solutions can be found which will prove satisfactory . 
The Commission 's proposals emphasise that trade policy in agricultural products should take into account , not only internal agricultural considerations , but also the need to maintain trade with third countries . 
This is a liberal approach and one with which we fully agree . 
45 . 
I therefore hope that we can reach agreement in principle that full regard should be paid to the interests of the Commonwealth producers concerned , and that they should be given in the future the opportunity of outlets for their produce comparable to those they now enjoy . 
46 . 
The precise form of the special arrangements needed to protect vital interests of Commonwealth countries in this field will need careful consideration . 
To a large extent it must depend on the way in which the common agricultural policy is developed . 
We want to work jointly with you in examining these problems and their relation to the common agricultural policy . 
CHAPTER 3 The Home in its Setting 
159 As a consequence of the social and economic changes referred to in the opening chapter problems are making themselves felt in relating homes to their setting because practice has not caught up with the changes that have taken place . 
Car ownership and traffic dangers have made the old pattern of housing estates out of date . 
The streets may have been a safe place for children when the baker and the milkman came by horse and cart and everyone walked to work . 
With one family in three owning a car now , and with delivery and public transport and service vehicles often all using the residential street , new arrangements are required . 
Similarly , the garden , once highly important as a means of growing vegetables and fruit to supplement the diet of the large families of people who , by today 's standards , were poorly paid and insecure , no longer serves that purpose . 
Again the pressure on land and the need to rebuild in city centres is compelling the building of a larger proportion of flats , which increases the need to provide somewhere for children to play . 
160 We have been to a number of estates where new forms of layout attempt to meet present day needs , and we wish there were more of them . 
In the years to come it is essential that there should be , for housing can become obsolete in its layout just as surely as in its internal design and facilities ; and most of the present work is obsolete from this point of view when it is built . 
Layout is not within our terms of reference , but we have been obliged to formulate views upon it in our consideration of the provision which should be made for cars , and the play space which should be provided in relation to blocks of flats . 
161 In addition to these two subjects , on which we were given to understand that advice on standards would be welcome , and on the access requirements of terrace houses , which markedly influence their internal arrangement , we propose to comment on two others — gardens and the general appearance of domestic building . 
1 External Appearance 
162 After inspecting so many developments in all parts of the country , we feel bound to record our concern that there should be such a vast gap between the best housing schemes in the country and many of the others . 
Control of development by town planning can not by itself produce good layout and appearance — the onus to achieve this lies with the developer himself , whether he is a private individual or a local authority . 
It can not be achieved without using qualified professional people , architects and landscape architects , to design not only the individual house and house group but , every bit as important , the layout as a whole , and the landscaping . 
With the numerous examples in the local authority field and the best examples in the private sector there is no longer any reason why our town and countryside should continue to be spoilt by unimaginative buildings . 
Good layout and landscaping , together with the use of good and well chosen external materials and colours throughout an estate , go nine-tenths of the way towards creating beauty instead of ugliness , and it is in these broad and not necessarily costly ways , rather than in the laboured detailing of the individual dwelling , that housing development can be made pleasing and attractive to the eye . 
163 This is applicable to local authorities and private enterprise alike , but it may be that those private developers who remain wedded to old plans grown dusty with the years , who are content with amateur layout , and who provide no landscaping but the good subsoil of the site , often do so because they fear conservatism on the part of the buyer and the building society . 
Whether or not some building societies are conservative , buyers are much less so ; and it is a fact worth recording that many builders have been surprised to find that houses catering for the present way of life and conformable with the modern eye for good design displace from their order books older and more conventional plans which they had previously been offering . 
We therefore urge those developers who do not already do so to turn increasingly to qualified people for the difficult and indispensable work of designing the buildings , the layout and the landscaping . 
For design now sells , and , if other considerations do not appeal , that alone should provide the incentive . 
164 It is essential that the landscaping should be designed for ease of maintenance as well as that funds should be provided for the maintenance both of the dwellings themselves and the spaces between them , including the landscaping . 
By ensuring that newly created property and its environment is properly looked after , its fresh appearance actually improves with the years as the lawns , trees and shrubs grow to maturity . 
165 With notable exceptions , most private development displays no co-ordination of painting and planting , and lags far behind that of many local authorities , who as landlords can maintain the whole of the estate . 
It must be admitted that many other European countries reach a far higher standard in their private estate layout than do we , very largely through the use of housing associations , which take full responsibility for both the initial landscaping and its maintenance . 
There are already in this country established ways of keeping owner occupied property in good and tasteful repair and the landscaping in good condition , by the use of restrictive covenants governing repainting and the maintenance of the landscaping . 
Non-profit-making companies , run by the occupiers , can see that the work is carried out , and these are proving successful . 
Television aerials 
166 The forest of roof top aerials brought into being by the growth of television and VHF radio stirs many people to strong condemnation , and we for our part share these feelings . 
Since television was introduced the increase in the power of the stations and the improved sensitivity of receivers have made outdoor aerials less necessary in many locations . 
Indoor or roof space aerials do not invariably give satisfactory performance even in strong signal areas , and there is therefore no easy or universal answer to this problem . 
But investigations , notably those of the Rowntree Trust at Earswick ( York ) , where on a large estate it was found that almost all the houses could be satisfactorily served by indoor television aerials , have shown that people often think of buying expensive outdoor aerials when they need not do so . 
167 Some local authorities building blocks of flats , and some New Town Corporations , are providing master aerial installations which amplify the signal received at one aerial installation and distribute it by wire to a number of dwellings . 
In many circumstances this is a necessary and sensible thing to do . 
In private enterprise housing there may be less scope for the use of master installations , except in blocks of flats , since there may not be an organisation to deal with its common ownership and maintenance , but in many areas there are relay companies which provide an aerial service on a commercial basis both to local authorities and to private premises . 
A broadcast relay station licence is required if a master aerial system , including a system provided by a local authority , serves two or more sets of premises , e.g. houses or blocks of flats , and applications for such licences should be made to the Post Office . 
Where it is not possible to provide a master aerial installation , and where a loft or indoor aerial is really inadequate , local authorities may consider standardising upon a suitable aerial , or requiring that tenants ' aerials should be sited where they can not be seen from the street or against the skyline , as has been done by a number of local authorities . 
In locations where an outside aerial is necessary a standardised aerial for each dwelling on an estate may perhaps be a practical possibility , and we commend it to the attention of developers . 
168 This is a continuing problem , for if new frequency bands should be brought into use for additional or colour programmes another crop of aerials can be expected , and although at the much higher frequencies likely to be concerned the rods of the aerials will be only about one foot long , outdoor aerials erected clear of buildings are likely to be necessary even quite near to powerful transmitters . 
It is therefore important for the appearance of estates that local authorities and other large property owners should bear in mind that , in conjunction with the local Post Office engineers , it is often possible to do a great deal to mitigate the nuisance ; and they should take every opportunity to do so . 
2 Gardens 
169 The post war improvements in the standard of living mean that few families now rely on the garden to keep them properly fed . 
It is now used for outdoor living , for children 's play and the baby 's sleep ; and it is cultivated either for the pleasure of gardening or only because it has to be kept tidy . 
With the tendency for densities to increase at the same time as space has to be provided for more cars to be kept , it will be a temptation to squeeze garden sizes to a point where they will no longer cater for these things . 
The evidence we received suggests that any call for large gardens is declining as other interests , such as the car , come to take up more of people 's leisure time . 
Where gardens are small , as they may well be when houses are built at densities which in the past have usually called for a proportion of flats , it will be important to plan for children 's play space nearby . 
170 In all gardens arrangements are required which will ensure a reasonable degree of privacy for sitting out and having meals outside . 
Present day gardens are often sadly lacking in this amenity . 
3 Terrace Houses — Access 
171 Probably most of the terrace houses built since 1945 have been laid out in such a way that there is no garden gate giving direct access to the rear of the house , and various means have been adopted to provide for access from the front to the back — a tunnel between pairs of houses ; a through store ; a store leading through a utility room ; or a store leading through the kitchen . 
Because of the need to provide pedestrian segregation and car storage , much future terrace housing will probably have access to both sides of the house , so meeting most of the requirements . 
The most important , to be met by house and layout taken together , are that there should be access , without entering hall , kitchen or any living room , for bicycles from road or public path to store ; for garden tools from store to place of use ; and for garden materials from place of delivery to place of use . 
There is also a requirement which we think should not be contravened in any circumstances — the refuse collector should be able to reach the dust-bin store , and the coalman the fuel store , without entering any part of the house ; this must of course be planned having due regard to the convenience of the householder . 
Maintenance men also have to be able to get ladders to both sides of the house . 
4 Play Space 
172 " While the child 's attendance at school is compulsory between the ages of five and fifteen , enjoyment of facilities for following his out-of-school interests is , and must remain , within the child 's or parents ' choice . 
It should be of as much concern to the general public that he has the necessary facilities for these leisure-time activities as that there is a school for him to attend " . 
173 We agree with this point of view , and also with the statement in the report of the Flats Sub-Committee published as " Living in Flats " in 1952 that " the provision of one or more playgrounds must be the first call on available space around flats , because it is on children that the inevitable restrictions of flat life press most hardly . " 
For example , the London Board have almost completed the rationalisation of their stores in which sixty old premises have been vacated , twenty-one new ones built and twenty-three completely reorganised . 
The Eastern Board after completing the centralisation of meter maintenance have achieved a 40 per cent . 
increase in output compared with 1948-49 , with substantial savings in costs . 
237 . 
In addition , clerical methods and accounting techniques are under continual review in all the Boards . 
Electronic calculators and high speed tabulators have steadily replaced older types of equipment and are now commonplace in the industry . 
The introduction of computers is proceeding where justifiable and the Council and Boards are in close touch with manufacturers about computer developments of special significance for electricity supply application . 
CHAPTER 6 EMPLOYEES Staffing of the Electricity Council 
238 . 
At 31st March , 1961 , the staff of the Electricity Council numbered 514 , of whom 346 were located at the Council 's headquarters in London and 168 were outstationed . 
Since March , 1958 , when the total employed was 542 , the Council have made slight reductions each year bringing about a total decrease of 5 per cent . 
in their staff up to the end of March , 1961 . 
239 . 
At the end of another successful year for the industry , the Electricity Council are glad once again to record their appreciation of the efficient manner in which their staff have conducted the Council 's business . 
Personnel of the Industry 
240 . 
At 31st March , 1961 , there were 193,174 persons employed in the electricity supply industry ; 514 by the Electricity Council , 55,198 by the Central Electricity Generating Board , and 137,462 by the Area Boards . 
The combined total exceeded the corresponding figure at the end of the previous year by 2.4 per cent . 
241 . 
This overall increase should be viewed against the expanding business of the industry . 
Thus , whilst Area Boards sold 12.4 per cent . 
more units during the year their total manpower at the end of the year had increased by less than 1.8 per cent. , and although the number of units sent out by the Generating Board increased by 10.9 per cent . 
the number of persons they employed rose by only 4.1 per cent . 
The reduction from 44 to 42 hours in the normal working week of the industry 's manual employees towards the end of the preceding year can also be assumed to have influenced the increase in numbers in those grades during the year under report . 
242 . 
Classified details of the numbers employed by the Council and by each Electricity Board , with corresponding figures for 31st March , 1960 , are shown in Appendix 10 . 
The classification relates to the main branches of the national negotiating machinery and the following table summarises the detailed figures given in the Appendix . 
Terms and Conditions of Employment 
243 . 
The arrangements for settling terms and conditions of employment of persons employed by the Electricity Council and the Boards have been fully described in previous reports . 
During the year the negotiating machinery dealt with a wide range of matters arising in the normal course of day-to-day relations between employees and management . 
The major issues on wage rates and salary scales are reported briefly in the following paragraphs . 
National Joint Industrial Council for Manual Workers 
244 . 
The Electricity Council Annual Report for 1959-60 referred to a claim for a substantial increase in wage rates submitted by the Trade Unions in January , 1960 , and indicated that negotiations were still in progress . 
245 . 
In April , 1960 , the Electricity Boards ' Members rejected the claim but offered to examine with the Trade Unions , after 30th June , 1960 , the whole question of wages and to apply any resulting wage increase from 31st August , 1960 . 
This offer was rejected by the Trade Unions who , in May , 1960 , referred the claim to arbitration . 
246 . 
The arbitration tribunal , meeting in July , were unable to agree and by the Chairman 's decision found against the claim but recommended that the parties should re-examine the whole question of wages at an early date . 
Acting on this recommendation the National Joint Industrial Council concluded an agreement on 12th August whereby the structure of the wages schedule was re-cast . 
The existing structure of just over one hundred named grades on thirty-three wage rates was replaced by eight groups with eight group rates and five lead rates for certain grades based on the capacity rating of plant on which they are employed . 
There was a general wage increase of 3d. per hour with greater increases for some grades , including craftsmen , and increases were made to chargehands ' enhancements and foremen 's salaries . 
Technical Engineering Staff 
247 . 
The main feature of the National Joint Board 's activities during the year was the introduction , with effect from 1st July , 1960 , of common salary scales applicable to all National Joint Board Technical Engineering staff , in place of the four existing salary schedules . 
Technical engineering staff in drawing offices were at the same time brought within the classification provisions of the Agreement , from which they had previously been excluded . 
The common scales were not designed to provide salary increases but to introduce a more equitable pattern of salary relationships between the various sections of the technical engineering staff , and to allow more flexibility in their application to varying forms of organisation . 
248 . 
Subsequently , the National Joint Board salary scales were further reviewed , having regard to salaries paid elsewhere within the industry and by outside industry in general , and increases ranging from £75 to £215 ( £40 to £50 for technical trainees ) { 6per annum were agreed with effect from 1st July , 1960 . 
Administrative and Clerical Grades 
249 . 
The Electricity Council 's Annual Report for 1959-60 referred to the recommendation of an arbitration tribunal that a claim for increases in salary scales should be considered on the basis of evidence drawn from a wide range of employment in comparable work . 
After examining information obtained from other bodies on salaries and conditions of service , the National Joint Council were unable to agree on the assessment of salaries and asked the tribunal to determine appropriate increases . 
Increases awarded by the tribunal , from 1st December , 1959 , ranged from £20 to £50 { 6per annum to the general clerical staff and from £75 to £215 { 6per annum to the higher grades . 
Managerial and Higher Executive Grades 
250 . 
The basis of the salary agreement was extended to cater for operational growth in the various organisations and , following salary and wages awards to other employees , increases ranging from £225 to £400 were made in the salary scales as from 1st July , 1960 . 
Joint Consultation 
251 . 
Joint discussion of the business and policies of the industry leading to full collaboration between management and employees is an important factor in making electricity supply an efficient service , and one of the objects of the joint consultative machinery in the electricity supply industry is to facilitate such discussion . 
A brief account of activities in this field during the year is given in the following paragraphs . 
National Joint Advisory Council 
252 . 
In the National Council representatives of employees join with senior representatives of the Electricity Council and Boards and leading Trade Union officers . 
The Chairman and other Members of the Electricity Council and Boards present reports on the progress and plans of the industry ; these reports are fully discussed and points arising are often referred to one of the National Council 's standing committees for more detailed study . 
253 . 
During the year the National Council discussed all aspects of the industry 's work , special emphasis being on education and training . 
Fifteen recommendations were made to Boards ; the subjects included safety rules ( radiological ) for use at nuclear stations ; amendments and additions to other safety rules ; safety training during pre-commissioning courses at new power stations ; methods of helping to solve the problem of employing the impending " bulge " in school leavers ; improved liaison between the industry and educational organisations ; and wider selection methods under the scheme for the interchange of personnel with overseas countries . 
254 . 
The National Council issued an annual report on their work as well as other publications designed to encourage the work of the District Councils and Local Committees . 
One of the National Council 's new ventures , the production of a film dealing with the basic principles of joint consultation , has been well received at employees ' meetings throughout the industry and has been widely shown outside the industry . 
District Joint Advisory Councils 
255 . 
The membership of each of the 12 District Councils includes representatives of employees as well as of the Boards and Trade Unions . 
The District Councils do much to stimulate the development of joint consultation in their areas . 
During the year they made many notable recommendations to the Boards affecting the interests of employees and the efficiency of the industry . 
These included recommendations on consumer relations , training in modern power station practice for employees in older stations ; the rehabilitation of disabled employees ; and the problems of communicating instructions , information and ideas . 
Four District Councils organised evening lectures for employees on human relations in industry and seven arranged district training courses for new members of the Local Committees . 
Ten District Councils received and discussed regular progress reports from Electricity Boards . 
Local Advisory Committees 
256 . 
There were 468 Local Advisory Committees in power stations , distribution districts and other places of work in the industry . 
They continued to pay particular attention to education , training , safety and the encouragement of efficiency — this last subject receiving more attention than any other during the year . 
Their recommendations to local managements concerned such subjects as the effectiveness of particular tools and equipment , sales development in smokeless zones , accident prevention and local training schemes and courses . 
They also continued to engage in many activities for spreading information among employees in their localities . 
An important development in this field , which has done much to improve two-way communication between management and employees , has been the holding of regular informal meetings of small groups of employees who normally work together . 
Other activities have included the organisation of general meetings of employees , safety weeks , power station open days , exhibitions of award-winning suggestions , arts and crafts exhibitions , and lunch-time and evening lectures . 
Suggestion Scheme 
257 . 
From the time when the employees ' suggestion scheme started ( in most districts by 1951-52 ) up to 31st March , 1961 , consideration has been given to 20,099 suggestions and 7,824 awards have been made by the Electricity Boards on the recommendations of District Councils . 
In 1960-61 the National Council considered 152 suggestions which had been referred to them as having possible national application ; in rather more than half of these they circulated details to the Electricity Boards , in all cases recommending additional awards . 
Superannuation 
258 . 
Careful consideration was given by the Electricity Council and the Electricity Boards to the impact on the industry 's superannuation schemes of the National Insurance Act , 1959 , and its provisions for contracting out of the State graduated pension scheme . 
Having obtained the views of the Trade Unions , and after joint consultation with the employees through the Advisory machinery , the Electricity Council and Boards decided upon a common policy of contracting out all their employees whose basic rate of pay exceeds £9 per week and who are members of Superannuation Schemes in the industry recognised by the Minister of Pensions and National Insurance for the purposes of the National Insurance Act , 1959 . 
259 . 
The Registrar of Non-Participating Employments issued the necessary certificate to be effective from 3rd April , 1961 , the commencing date for the State graduated pension scheme . 
The National Insurance ( Modification of Electricity Superannuation Schemes ) Regulations , 1961 , applicable to all the industry 's schemes whose members are contracted out of the State scheme , came into force on the same day . 
260 . 
The second valuation of the Staff Superannuation Scheme showed an overall surplus of almost £2 million , which the Council , with the agreement of the Electricity Boards , decided to retain in the Fund . 
The Actuaries ' Report on the first valuation of the Manual Workers ' Superannuation Scheme was received just before the close of the year . 
Safety , Health and Welfare Safety 
261 . 
The Safety Branch of the Electricity Council advise the various sections of the industry on safety matters and promote and encourage the use of methods for reducing accidents and dangerous occurrences and their effect on the operations of the Boards . 
THE CIVIL DEFENCE LONG SERVICE MEDAL ROYAL WARRANT ELIZABETH R. 
ELIZABETH THE SECOND , by the Grace of God of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and of our other Realms and Territories Queen , Head of the Commonwealth , Defender of the Faith , to all to whom these Presents shall come . 
Greeting ! 
WHEREAS WE are desirous of honouring those who have rendered long and faithful service as Members of the Civil Defence Corps , of the Auxiliary Fire Service , of the Industrial Civil Defence Organisation , of the Warning and Monitoring Organisation and of the National Hospital Service Reserve in Great Britain and of the corresponding services and organisations in Northern Ireland and the Isle of Man , We do by these Presents for Us , our Heirs and Successors institute and create a new Medal and We do hereby direct that it shall be governed by the following rules and ordinances : 
Firstly : Style . 
— The Medal shall be designated and styled " The Civil Defence Long Service Medal " . 
Secondly : Description . 
— The Award shall be in cupro-nickel in the form of an oval Medal bearing on the obverse the Crowned Effigy of the Sovereign and on the reverse an appropriate design . 
Thirdly : Ribbon . 
— The Medal shall be worn on the left side attached by a suspending bar to a ribbon one and a quarter inches in width , which shall be , in colour , dark blue , with , superimposed thereon , three narrow vertical stripes of yellow , red and green respectively , the yellow stripe being worn farthest from the left shoulder . 
Fourthly : Eligibility . 
— Those eligible shall be persons who are or were within three years before the date of this Our Warrant , members of one of the services or organisations set out in Appendix 1 to this Our Warrant , hereinafter referred to as the Civil Defence Services , and have rendered the qualifying service required by this Our Warrant . 
Fifthly : Qualifying Service . 
— The qualifying service requisite for the Medal shall be fifteen years efficient service in one or more of the Civil Defence Services subsequent to the date of the establishment of the service or organisation in question as set out in Appendix 1 to this Our Warrant : 
Provided that service rendered in the United Kingdom or the Isle of Man in one or more of the former organisations set out in Appendix 2 to this Our Warrant , before the dates set out therein , shall also be treated as qualifying service : 
Provided also that no account shall be taken of any service which , in the case of the person concerned , has been reckoned as qualifying service for the Fire Brigade Long Service and Good Conduct Medal or for the Women 's Voluntary Service Medal or Clasp . 
Sixthly : Long Service Clasp . 
— An additional Clasp which shall be attached to the ribbon and shall bear upon it the words " Long Service " may be awarded for each additional twelve years satisfactory service subsequent to that for which the Medal was awarded and for each Clasp awarded a small silver rose emblem shall be added to the ribbon when worn alone . 
The reckoning of such service shall be governed by the rules relative to the reckoning of qualifying service for the Medal itself as set out in the Fifth Clause of this Our Warrant . 
Seventhly : Delegated powers . 
— Delegated powers to make awards under this Our Warrant shall be vested in Our appropriate Ministers namely Our Secretary of State for the Home Department , Our Secretary of State for Scotland , Our Minister of Health , and Our Minister of Home Affairs for Northern Ireland as the case may be . 
Eighthly : Submission of names . 
— The names of persons eligible for the Medal shall be submitted to the appropriate Minister in accordance with arrangements made by him or her in respect of the Civil Defence Service concerned , and no award shall be made unless the submission is accompanied by a certificate that — 
( a ) the person has been , throughout the qualifying period , a member of the Civil Defence Services , or of one or more of the former organisations set out in Appendix 2 to this Our Warrant ; 
( b ) the person has either ( 1 ) completed the appropriate standard training and rendered to the satisfaction of the authority or authorities concerned such service as has been properly required of him or her in the Civil Defence Services , or ( 2 ) , in the case of a member of the National Hospital Service Reserve , or , in Northern Ireland , of the Hospital Service Reserve , whose training or duties , or both , are such that they may coincide with qualifications required for the Service Medal of the Order of St. John or the Voluntary Medical Service Medal , that the member has completed to the satisfaction of the authority or authorities concerned not less than 12 duties annually disregarding duties which have been , are being or will be reckoned for the purpose of either of those two awards ; and 
( c ) the person is in every way deserving of the Medal . 
Ninthly : Registration . 
— The names of all those to whom the Medal or the Clasp is awarded shall be recorded in the Home Office , the Ministry of Health , the Scottish Home Department , the Department of Health for Scotland , the Ministry of Home Affairs for Northern Ireland or Government Office , Isle of Man , as the case may be . 
Tenthly : Order of wear . 
— In the official list showing the order in which Orders , Decorations and Medals should be worn the Civil Defence Long Service Medal shall be placed immediately after the Royal Observer Corps Medal . 
Eleventhly : Miniatures. — Reproductions of the Medal , known as miniature Medals , which may be worn on certain occasions by those to whom the Medal is awarded , shall be approximately half the size of the Civil Defence Long Service Medal , and a sealed pattern of the miniature Medal shall be kept in the Central Chancery of Our Orders of Knighthood . 
Twelfthly : Cancellation and Restoration . 
— It shall be competent for the appropriate Minister to cancel and annul the conferment of the Civil Defence Long Service Medal or Long Service Clasp on any person , and also to restore the Medal or Clasp which has been so forfeited . 
Lastly : Annulment . 
— We reserve to Ourself , Our Heirs and Successors , full power of annulling , altering , abrogating , augmenting , interpreting or dispensing with these rules and ordinances , or any part thereof , by a notification under Our Sign Manual . 
Given at Our Court at St. James 's this nineteenth day of January , One thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , in the ninth year of Our Reign . 
By Her Majesty 's Command , 
Harold Macmillan . 
To the Right Hon. SELWYN LLOYD , C.B.E. , T.D. , Q.C. , M.P. , Chancellor of the Exchequer CONTROL OF PUBLIC EXPENDITURE 
The Select Committee on Estimates published a Report in 1958 on Treasury Control of Expenditure . 
They recommended that a small independent Committee , which should have access to Cabinet papers , be appointed to report upon the theory and practice of Treasury control of expenditure . 
The Treasury 's observations on the Report recorded the conclusion of the Government that they could not accept the Committee 's recommendation in favour of an outside committee , but that they had decided to set in hand a review of the principles and practice which govern the control by the executive of public expenditure . 
It was also stated that this would be an internal enquiry under the authority of the Chancellor of the Exchequer , and that on some aspects of it the Government proposed to seek advice from persons with appropriate knowledge and experience who were not members of the Government or in the Government service . 
2 . 
In accordance with these decisions your predecessor announced in the summer of 1959 that I had been appointed by him to take general charge of this work aided by a Group consisting of persons from outside the Government service and senior officials drawn from Departments including the Treasury . 
Later it was announced that Sir Sam Brown , Sir Jeremy Raisman and Mr. J. E. Wall had been appointed to the Group . 
3 . 
The announcement of the enquiry made it clear that our proceedings and recommendations to Ministers would be confidential . 
We could not have carried out the survey which we have been able to make on any other basis . 
As our enquiry developed we submitted to your predecessor and to you a series of confidential reports . 
It was always our intention to consolidate these at the end , and we have prepared the attached Report in order to do so in a form in which , if you saw fit , it could be published . 
4 . 
In tendering advice which the Government may wish to publish we are not unmindful of the position of our Civil Service colleagues and therefore , notwithstanding their full participation in the work of the Group , we consider it more appropriate that our Report should be submitted in the names of the members from outside the Government service , who take responsibility for it . 
Consequently what is said in it is in the names of Sir Sam Brown , Sir Jeremy Raisman , Mr. J. E. Wall and myself . 
It does not follow from this procedure however that those civil servants who have taken part in the work of the enquiry in any way dissent from the views expressed or the recommendations made , either in general or in particular . 
On behalf of the Group , 
PLOWDEN 
Chairman . 
9th June , 1961 . 
REPORT ON THE CONTROL OF PUBLIC EXPENDITURE 
1 . 
At our first meeting in October , 1959 , we decided to concentrate in full committee on the central problem of public expenditure , which is the determination of policy and the distribution of resources , while studying in smaller groups particular aspects of expenditure control or areas of expenditure . 
For these studies we co-opted the Permanent Secretaries of the Departments with whose expenditure we were concerned or who had special experience of the general problems under review . 
In some cases we sought specialist advice from outside the Civil Service . 
We decided , however , not to take evidence from outside bodies : our review was primarily concerned with the inner working of the Treasury and the Departments , and was necessarily confidential in character , and we decided that the Group itself ( except on certain specialist matters ) provided a sufficient body of outside opinion to bring to bear on this task . 
2 . 
A comprehensive review of the principles and practice of the control of public expenditure would take many years . 
There are large tracts of the territory which we have hardly touched . 
The method which we adopted , however , which was in effect a continuous consultation with the Permanent Secretaries and other officials of the major Departments over a period of nearly two years , has , we believe , given us a sufficient insight into the matter . 
We are confident that our conclusions would not be changed by more prolonged examination . 
3 . 
In our judgment , the crucial questions are not those of detail : the precise nature of the organisation and chains of command within and between Departments , important though these are . 
The real problems are wider : what the machine of government is trying to do , what its attitudes are , what it regards as important , and its approach to its work on all matters involving public expenditure . 
These are not always clear cut , and they do not lend themselves readily to specific recommendations ; but we are confident that here is the kernel of the matter . 
The whole of this Report is designed to suggest what might be the most fruitful lines of development in the future . 
4 . 
Before we proceed to the substance of the Report , we may perhaps usefully comment on what we have seen of the work of the Civil Service in the course of this enquiry . 
Those of us who are outside the Civil Service have considerable experience of it , here and overseas , but this has been a favourable opportunity to see it and study it in action . 
There have been changes , both in scope and character , in the activities of Government in the last two decades , which have produced strains in traditional structures and practices . 
We have been impressed by the way the Service has adapted itself to deal with these changes . 
Barnardo 's Overseas 
Times do not change in Great Britain only but in the rest of the world too , and out of this pattern of restless progress come calls for help with Child Care problems , both for actual care and for help and guidance in how this can best be given . 
We thus learn that the name of Barnardo comes to the mind , when child care is planned in many parts of the world remote from our own land , and we are honoured by receiving these calls for help . 
In 1954 we decided to consider undertaking work in Kenya and in 1956 Mr. T. F. Tucker , then Deputy General Superintendent , made a personal investigation . 
As a result , two of our experienced superintendents , Rev. and Mrs. A. St. J. Lemon , have spent two years guiding and assisting the work of the local Child Welfare Society which was striving nobly to meet a great need but lacking our knowledge and experience . 
During 1960 , assured of the good-will of the Government and their Officials and with generous help over a site , plans have been made to build a Home for thirty children of any race who may be in need . 
This should be in use before the end of 1961 . 
With Sir Donald MacGillivray as our President and a representative committee of which Mr. B. S. Eastwood is Chairman and Mr. L. Njonjo Vice Chairman , we are assured of strong local support and in addition can look to the help of Mr. M. Adlam as Hon. Treasurer and the Hon. Humphrey Slade as our Honorary Legal Adviser . 
Sir Arthur Smith reported enthusiastically on the Inaugural Meeting which he attended in Nairobi , on 29th November , 1960 , when Sir Godfrey Rhodes was in the Chair supported by the Hon. J. N. Muimi , M.L.C. , the Minister of Health . 
We rejoice at this opening of a new chapter in our history and have little doubt that others will watch with interest this experiment in adapting the Barnardo standards and methods of Child Care to the needs of a community whose conditions of life are very different from our own . 
Another small piece of help which may be mentioned is that which is being given to the Sanyu Babies Home in Uganda , in order that this work , started by Missionaries of the Church Missionary Society , for babies abandoned in the Mission Hospital , may be further developed . 
Mention should also be made of an appeal from Hong Kong to assist in the placing of abandoned babies , approved as suitable , by the International Social Service , with married couples in this country , who have offered to take such children into their homes . 
In Hong Kong destitute children in as dire need as any Dr. Barnardo found a hundred years ago on our London streets are a common sight , but it is clear that the support and guidance of an Adoption Society such as our own is essential if such placements are to be made happily , and the interests of these abandoned children safeguarded , in all eventualities . 
We have gladly responded to this call and who can tell to what new enterprises these initial experiments may lead by the time we reach our Centenary in 1966 ? 
Changes in Australia too 
The wind of change has been blowing in the Australian branch of our family too , and much has happened there during the last year , which will be of interest to our readers . 
Some of our large units , such as the Picton Farm School and parts of Normanhurst , have been sold and new Homes more suitable as family group Homes purchased , and in addition , a Boarding Out Officer has been appointed in order to further this type of care in our Australian work . 
We have unfortunately experienced some difficulty in finding a sufficient number of children free to emigrate from this country , partly because of the ties which so many now retain with at least some members of their own family . 
Although this must be disappointing to our New South Wales Committee who have given so much thought and effort to the changes already mentioned , they hope also to open a new chapter in offering admission to local Australian children who may be in need . 
Barnardo Publications on Child Care 
Opening new branches is not however the only way in which we feel able to help with child care problems in the world at large , and we always welcome at Stepney the numerous visitors from abroad who want to profit by the experience of our senior officers and also see some of our Branch Homes or Special Schools for themselves . 
But there is much help that could be disseminated more widely by means of booklets on various technical aspects of our work , and the preparation of two of these has begun this year . 
One is on the method of helping cases of enuresis or bed wetting and the other out-lines a scheme of help for spastic children ( those suffering from cerebral palsy ) from early infancy . 
Further subjects will be dealt with in due course , and should prove a valuable means of passing on to others the experience we have gained ourselves through the years since Dr. Barnardo himself first opened the door nearly 100 years ago . 
Homes for Special Needs 
The work of our Special Homes , linked with boarding schools for the backward or physically handicapped has continued steadily and there have been small waiting lists for any vacancies that might occur . 
The Ministry of Education , convinced that the need for these schools has been largely met , placed limits on the maximum numbers for each school , which reduced the places available by about twenty-five . 
As far as we are concerned , the chief effect of the more adequate national provision for the physically handicapped has been a tendency to limit applicants for admission to a special type of problem . 
This is the child with a severe handicap , whatever its actual nature , and of relatively retarded intelligence , whose home can not cope with the problem involved . 
Such cases exact a heavy toll of patience and toil from our staff , and we never cease to admire the devoted service so many of them give to this cause . 
The work makes its own appeal however , and we have not experienced undue difficulty in keeping these Homes staffed . 
A special group of these children is the severe "Spastics " whose educability can only be decided by an actual period of trial . 
The County Education Officers have shown themselves more than ready to sponsor such a trial but often search desperately for any boarding school willing to provide the opportunity . 
Here we have felt was a need which should appeal to an organisation such as ours , and we have arranged an extra class in each of our five schools , where such a trial can be given . 
Allied to this work has been our centre near Derby at which we have sheltered and helped up to 25 mentally disordered children who have either been ascertained as such subsequent to admission , or who were admitted for a short period to give their parents a much needed rest . 
Mention has already been made of the working party considering the needs of children suffering from mental disorder . 
This has now reported and its recommendations have been accepted by the Council . 
Although they can only be implemented in due course it is hoped to extend the work we are now doing at our Home near Derby , and thus increase the scope of our work to help in this urgent national problem . 
There remain one or two specific problems such as deafness , blindness or severe speech defects for which we do not ourselves provide the special treatment and education required , but even here , we can and do help by arranging admission and then planning the help required with the aid of those who have the facilities . 
With this provision in mind , we might rightly add to our original motto " No destitute child ever refused admission " , a modern variation " No child in need refused the help he or she requires " . 
We are certainly doing our best to make this a reality . 
Our Approved Schools 
A glance at the page " Our Work in Brief " which concludes this Report , may surprise some by its reference to two approved schools , and it will be noted that this is not a charge on our charitable funds . 
It is however a piece of work of which Barnardo supporters should rightly be very proud , and the record of these two schools in their work for children in need is not surpassed by that of any of our other branches . 
It is perhaps not sufficiently realised by the public generally that the Home Office is glad to entrust the running of these schools to a number of Christian Organisations , realising that the Christian faith and way of life can supply the stabilising power these boys so greatly need . 
It will of course be realised that the boys admitted have been sent to us by the Children 's Courts and have no other connection with our own Barnardo family . 
In most cases the boys lack the right kind of home support and care and at times may have no suitable home to which they can return when their school training is deemed to be completed . 
This fact makes it most appropriate that a Christian Child Care organisation should be responsible for their future and can , when necessary , offer the hospitality of a Home or Hostel to meet the need . 
Going Out into the World 
For every boy and girl who has been living in the Barnardo family the day comes when they must start in their first post and in many cases have their first experience of lodgings . 
It will be realised how much help they may need in the first one or two years , and our well organised and staffed After Care departments for boys and girls are planned to provide this help . 
What Happens 
You may wonder what happens to our boys and girls , and the answer can best be found in the pages of the old boys and girls Magazine the Guild Messenger . 
This is published four times a year and each issue has at least twelve pages of " News from ALL Quarters " , weddings , etc. , and correspondence from all parts of the world . 
It is a wonderful story of how these young people , who seemed at one time to have lost all that matters most , have won their way back to find their own niche in a difficult world . 
This magazine , with all its personal news , is only for members of the old Boys and Girls Guild , but if any of our keen supporters could steal a glimpse at its pages , their hearts would be warmed within them . 
It tells also of annual re-unions and dinners held in various parts of the country and of the activities in the well established club at Stepney , where old boys and girls , within reach , foregather on Friday evenings or for special social occasions . 
Finally , mention may be made of a letter which is sent out at Christmastime to every old boy and girl whose address is known , however many years ago they may have left our care . 
Some six thousand of these are sent and the numerous replies received indicate how much they are appreciated . 
What is the Secret of Success 
We of course have our " black sheep " and some do not succeed as well as others in overcoming their initial handicaps , but we feel confident that our records reveal a high level of success in preparing our boys and girls for life and all its demands upon them . 
When viewed against the background of low standards of morality , honesty and behaviour which many of our National leaders deplore as a feature of our times , we might well be challenged to say what is the secret of character building which turns out so many of our children as worthy citizens . 
The answer may best be given by saying that we would not dare to take the responsibility of sending these our children out into the world without the foundation of a strong Christian faith . 
A demonstration of historic books of medicine and science was held as one of the Children 's Christmas Lectures in the College and evoked much interest and many questions from the girls and boys present at it . 
Through the generosity of the Council the Librarian attended the 17 International Congress of the History of Medicine at Athens and Cos , and afterwards contributed an account of this stimulating occasion to the Annals . 
The College was represented at the first British Congress of Medical History organised by the Society of Apothecaries , and an exhibition largely of books from the Library was arranged in the College for the occasion . 
A stock of copies of Sir Zachary Cope 's History of the College and of the Catalogue of the Portraits is available for sale from the Library , and the demand has been continuous . 
Material for " Lives " of all Fellows who have died is regularly collected and it is hoped to edit the memoirs covering January 1952 to December 1960 for publication very shortly . 
Plarr 's Lives of the Fellows 1843-1930 is out of print , but the volume of Lives of Fellows 1930-1951 is on sale from the Library , price 42s . 
Illustrated accounts of the College buildings and possessions have been published by Mr. Peter McLennan in Impulse , June 1961 , and by Mr. Arthur Oswald in Country Life , 20th July and 17th August 1961 . 
Manuscripts 
The Dowager Lady Rigby has generously presented an autograph manuscript of Sir Frederic Treves in which he began to record his reminiscences of unusual cases or distinguished patients . 
It records his treatment of Sir John Millais the painter and Sir Henry Irving the actor , with a long account of his attendance on King Edward 7 . 
The Millais case has been published in the Annals . 
An annotated transcript has been published in Medical History of the manuscript which was found in the copy of Geminus ' Anatomy ( 1553 ) , purchased in 1959 . 
This is the account kept by a country surgeon in 1609 in the North Riding of Yorkshire , recording the ailments , treatment , and payments of his patients . 
An autograph letter from John Hunter to William Eden , 1st Lord Auckland , has been bought ; it is particularly interesting for the light it throws on Hunter 's familiar friendship with this distinguished statesman . 
Another interesting purchase is a small note-book in which Thomas Howitt ( F.R.C.S . 
1853 ) kept record of his attendance on the lectures of Charles Bell and others in London and of Guillaume Dupuytren in Paris in the eighteen-thirties . 
Through the good offices of Sir James Paterson Ross , Bt. , the records of Sir Thomas Dunhill 's thyroid patients have been presented to the College ; they have been arranged and indexed by Sir Thomas 's personal secretary , Miss Mary Macdonald . 
Other gifts of manuscripts , autographs , and photocopies of documents are gratefully acknowledged from Sir Zachary Cope , Dr. D. W. Dawson , Mr. D. M. Hall , Prof. Milroy Paul , Sir Harry Platt , Bt. , Prof. K. F. Russell , Miss D. Tremain , and the College of Physicians of Philadelphia . 
Meetings and other Activities 
By permission of the President , meetings were held in the Library by the Medical Section of the Library Association and by the Society for the Bibliography of Natural History . 
The librarians of the eight principal medical libraries in London held their annual meeting in the Librarian 's office and discussed the ways and means of their co-operation . 
This informal co-operative organisation was inaugurated in 1938 under the encouragement of Sir Gordon Gordon-Taylor , when he was chairman of the College 's library committee . 
Several foreign surgeons , scholars , and librarians have visited the Library , and the Librarian was particularly honoured by a visit from Dr. F. Bradford Rogers , Director of the U.S. National Library of Medicine , when he was passing through London . 
The Honorary Librarian was awarded the first Honorary Fellowship of the new Faculty of the History of Medicine and Pharmacy of the Society of Apothecaries . 
The Librarian has been elected a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries and an Honorary Fellow of the Hunterian Society . 
He has continued to serve as chairman of the Library Committee of the Royal College of Nursing , and has been appointed to the Council of the World List of Scientific Periodicals . 
He attended by invitation a meeting called by the Royal Society of Medicine to discuss the part which various national and medical libraries might be able to play in providing a more complete service of medical literature on a national scale . 
The Assistant Librarian has served on the Council of the Library Association , and is Honorary Secretary of its Medical Section . 
The Librarian spoke to the postgraduate students on the use and facilities of the Library at the beginning of each of the courses of lectures . 
By direction of the Council , he was privileged to address the Annual Meeting of Fellows and Members on the work of the Library in connexion with the teaching and research departments . 
EXHIBITIONS 
In addition to the permanent exhibitions of Hunteriana , medals , drawings , etc. , temporary exhibits have been shown for special occasions in the Exhibition Halls . 
The Library has had the co-operation of the historical departments of the Museum in the mounting of these , and particular thanks are due to Miss Jessie Dobson , the Anatomy Curator , for her help and advice . 
An exhibition of Listeriana was set up at the time of the Lister Lecture , and the bicentenary of the birth of Matthew Baillie in 1761 has been commemorated by an exhibit of books and documents from the Hunter-Baillie collection , illustrating his career . 
Professor H. J. Seddon kindly lent several drawings and other memorabilia of the early years of modern orthopaedic surgery for exhibition on the occasion of his Robert Jones lecture , to augment the valuable exhibits permanently shown by the British Orthopaedic Association . 
The College lent four early anaesthesia books to the University Library at Nancy for exhibition at the national anaesthesia conference of France . 
A collection of portrait engravings of famous medical men was lent to the Art Gallery at Auckland for the B.M.A . 
meeting in New Zealand . 
PORTRAITS AND WORKS OF ART 
Four important paintings have been added to the gallery of portraits of surgeons : Sir Harry Platt , Bt. , generously presented the portrait of himself in his presidential robes painted by Sir William Hutchison , P.R.S.A. ; Mr. James Gunn , R.A. , presented his sketch for the portrait of the late Sir Gordon Gordon-Taylor , painted a few months before Sir Gordon 's death ; Miss E. M. Berkeley has given a portrait of Thomas Copeland , F.R.S. , F.R.C.S. , Member of Council 1827-1854 , painted by Thomas Stewardson , a pupil of Romney and Opie and a frequent Academy exhibitor ; Professor Charles Wells has painted and generously presented a portrait of the late Sir Archibald McIndoe . 
Several of the older portraits have been restored or revarnished . 
Sir Cecil Wakeley , Bt. , has presented a bronze head of himself by E. Pentland and a pencil-portrait by J. H. Dowd ; he has also generously given his collection of miniatures of famous medical men from Harvey to Lord Moynihan , which he commissioned from Mr. P. Buckman ; two drawings by Henry Tonks , F.R.C.S. , Slade Professor of Fine Art , of the late Sir Harold Gillies have been presented by Lady Gillies and another by Sir William Kelsey Fry . 
A coloured drawing by Thomas Rowlandson , a caricature of " The Persevering Surgeon " , has been bought . 
Gifts of medals , engravings , bookplates and other illustrations are gratefully acknowledged from Miss Mary Calvert , Surgeon-Captain J. L. S. Coulter , R.N. , Sir Zachary Cope , Mr. A. Dickson Wright , Mr. Alexander Innes , Sir Geoffrey Keynes , Sir Victor Negus , Prof. K. F. Russell , Mr. P. K. Sartory , and the executors of the late Sir Gordon Gordon-Taylor . 
The restoration of a further volume of the collection of Hunterian drawings has been completed at the British Museum . 
A selection from the collection of Pharmacy Jars was lent to The Times Book Shop in connexion with their Royal Society Tercentenary Exhibition . 
Two coloured engravings of the College in the early nineteenth century were presented to the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons by the President when he visited Melbourne . 
Faculty of Dental Surgery Members of the Board 1960-1961 Report 
During the year 1960-1961 the work of the Board and its Committees has continued to grow , while the Department of Dental Science has pursued its researches with vigour and enthusiasm . 
At a Meeting of the Board on 18th November , 1960 , the following resolution of appreciation was passed for the services rendered to the Department since its inception by Sir Wilfred Fish : — 
" That the Faculty of Dental Surgery desires to record its deep sense of gratitude to Sir Wilfred Fish , lately Honorary Director of the Department of Dental Science , for the outstanding services he has rendered to dental science in establishing the Department and guiding it over the past five years . 
Sir Wilfred Fish 's inspiring leadership and wise administration have established the Department on so sure a basis that it is in every respect well equipped to advance its work with energy and confidence . " 
The Board was very pleased to receive from the President on his return from an extensive tour overseas a message of goodwill to the Faculty from Sir John Walsh , Dean of the Otago Dental School , New Zealand . 
In the field of postgraduate education the Board has been greatly encouraged by the enthusiastic response to the courses of lectures and scientific meetings arranged by the Faculty . 
It was particularly pleasing to find that over three hundred and fifty dentists attended the Scientific Meeting in June and the Board feels sure that this scientific meeting has now become an established annual event which the profession has welcomed eagerly . 
1 . 
Elections to the Board 
As a result of a postal ballot on 16th June 1961 , to fill five vacancies on the Board following the retirement in rotation of four Fellows and the resignation of one Fellow , the following were re-elected or elected to the Board : — 
At the election of one Licentiate in Dental Surgery to the Board on 15th July 1960 , Mr. W. Beric Southwell , T.D. , was elected . 
2 . 
Thirteenth Annual Meeting 
The Thirteenth Annual Meeting was held on Friday , 15th July 1960 , and was attended by forty-eight Fellows and Licentiates in Dental Surgery . 
The Charles Tomes Lecture was delivered on the same day by Mr. Terence Ward on " Surgery of the Mandibular Joint " , and was followed by the Anniversary Dinner . 
3 . 
Election of Dean and Vice-Dean 
The Board of Faculty re-elected Professor Martin A. Rushton , C.B.E. , to the office of Dean and elected Mr. G. H. Leatherman to the office of Vice-Dean for the year . 
4 . 
Fellowship in Dental Surgery by Examination 
During the past year 151 Candidates presented themselves for the Primary Examination for the Fellowship in Dental Surgery and 52 were successful . 
70 Candidates presented themselves for the Final Examination for the Fellowship in Dental Surgery , of whom the following 26 were successful : — 5 . 
Licence in Dental Surgery 
During the past year 347 candidates were examined by the Surgical Section , 321 of whom were approved , and 352 were examined by the Dental Section , 230 of whom were approved , making a total of 230 candidates who were awarded the Licence in Dental Surgery . 
6 . 
Diploma in Orthodontics 
During the past year 33 candidates entered for the examination for the Diploma in Orthodontics , of whom 21 were successful . 
7 . 
Examinerships 
The Council , acting on the recommendation of the Board of Faculty , has re-elected for the year August 1961-July 1962 those examiners who were eligible and sought re-election . 
In addition , the following new examiners have been elected by Council : — 8 . 
Primary F.D.S. Examination 
The Board has drawn up a guide to the Primary F.D.S. Examination on the lines of that now printed in the F.R.C.S . 
Regulations . 
This guide makes clear the general scope of the examinations in Anatomy , Physiology , and Pathology and Bacteriology . 
It has been agreed to exchange visitors with the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh , with a view to considering the desirability of introducing reciprocity as between the Primary F.D.S. Examinations of the two Colleges . 
9 . 
Postgraduate Education 
The third Scientific Meeting organised by the Faculty was held at the College on Saturday , 3rd June 1961 , when the subject was " Temporo-mandibular Joint Problems and their Treatment " . 
In any expansion of industry or national prosperity ... 
THE ELECTRICAL INDUSTRY MUST BE IN THE FOREFRONT Lord Chandos Chairman of Associated Electrical Industries 
The Sixty-first Annual General Meeting of Associated Electrical Industries Limited was held on April 20 at Grosvenor House , Park Lane , London , W.1 . 
The Rt . 
Hon. Viscount Chandos ( the Chairman ) presided and said : 
I have , first a sad and heavy task to perform . 
Two of our Directors , Lord Weeks and Mr. Comar Wilson , have died since the date of the last Annual General Meeting . 
Their colleagues on the Board have suffered the loss of two friends . 
Their experience and knowledge in the wide field of business will be greatly missed , and we record our deep gratitude for their services to the Board over a long period . 
Lord Head resigned from the Board on his appointment as High Commissioner in Nigeria . 
Our regrets at losing his services are , in a measure , offset by the knowledge that the post which he now fills is one of the most important in the Commonwealth . 
Top Management Strengthened 
I want next to tell you of certain appointments consequent upon the reorganisation of the Company into a single trading entity . 
We have strengthened the top management at Head Office . 
Sir Cecil Dannatt was appointed Vice-Chairman in April last year , and I take this opportunity on your behalf of congratulating him upon the Knighthood which Her Majesty has conferred upon him . 
He took up his duties last May and his support and knowledge have already proved of the highest value . 
Later in the year , Mr. C. R. Wheeler was also appointed a Vice-Chairman . 
We would like publicly to thank Guest , Keen and Nettlefolds Ltd. for having agreed to his release . 
Mr. Wheeler will take up some executive duties next year . 
We have gained a notable accession of strength by his appointment . 
Sir Joseph Latham joined the Board in August , and since that date he has become Director of Finance . 
His wide experience of both finance and accountancy is proving of outstanding benefit to the Company . 
Mr. H. West , who has served the Company with distinction for 42 years , succeeded Dr. Dannatt as Group Managing Director at Manchester in April last , and was elected to the Board at the end of the year . 
Mr. R. I. Basset , who for many years has been a Director of AEI Woolwich , also joined the Board . 
You will be asked to confirm these appointments later . 
Mr. E. R. Mason has been appointed the sole Managing Director of AEI Export , and Mr. W. A. Ankerson Assistant Managing Director of the Woolwich Group . 
Mr. D. T. L. Rettie has been appointed the Managing Director of our subsidiary dealing with domestic appliances overseas — A.E.I. Gala . 
Retirements 
I can not refer to all those who retired last year , although they are much in our minds , but I would like to mention two by name . 
First , Mr. E. V. Small , who for a great many years has been concerned with our export business , and who has been notably ingenious and successful . 
There are a number of contracts still current which he negotiated , and we have retained him as a consultant upon these and more general matters . 
Secondly , Mr. F. Tankard , the Comptroller at Manchester , who has left us on reaching retiring age . 
We thank him for his past services , and wish him well for the future . 
To all who have retired , we wish happiness and long life . 
Research Leaders Honoured 
Finally , we congratulate all those who have featured in the year 's Honours lists , and particularly Dr. T. E. Allibone and Mr. L. J. Davies . 
The former is the head of our fundamental Research Laboratory at Aldermaston , and the latter the Head of Research at Rugby . 
1960 TRADING PROFIT AFTER TAX VIRTUALLY UNCHANGED 
I will deal with the figures very briefly . 
The trading profit , after tax , was virtually unchanged at £4,722,000 compared with £4,747,000 last year . 
Although the depreciation charged has risen by £378,000 , this was more than offset by a reduction in our tax liabilities . 
The adventitious profits , which will form part of our revenue as we change our investment , are considerably lower than last year . 
Together with amounts set aside for taxation now no longer required these profits are at just above £1m. compared with just under £2 1/2m . 
The total retention in the business , or , to use the American term , the cash flow , is for this reason slightly less than last year , at £7,843,000 compared with £8,127,000 . 
The increase of £10m. in working capital consisted partly of bigger stocks of finished goods but mainly of work in progress on large contracts . 
The financing of exports is a heavy burden and we welcome any help that H.M. Government can give us . 
At the end of the year the Group 's bank overdrafts totalled over £9m. : however , £5 1/2m. related to the financing of the Berkeley contract and is largely self-liquidating . 
The Board have no proposals for the issue of additional capital . 
The payment of total Ordinary dividends of 3/- per share , will require about £140,000 more than last year because of the issue of additional Ordinary shares to A. Reyrolle and Co . 
Ltd. in exchange for our participation in C. A. Parsons and Co . 
Ltd . 
There was some loss of revenue involved in the exchange of these shares for shares in C. A. Parsons and Co . 
Ltd. in 1960 , which of course will be largely recouped in 1961 . 
The total Stockholders ' capital employed in the business is £138,906,000 , the equity capital is £133,120,000 , against the nominal figure of £42,828,000 . 
The 3/- Ordinary dividend represents a return on the equity capital of slightly under 5% . 
TURNOVER UP — RECORD ORDER BOOK 
The order book is a record . 
Compared with last year the orders received increased from £182m. to £233m . 
Our turnover increased from £208m. to £215m. , and orders in hand have increased from £173m. to £181m . 
Sometimes an increase in the orders in hand is regarded as a wholly favourable feature , but this is only true to a limited extent . 
If the growth in the order book is not matched by parallel growth in engineering and manufacturing capacity it would adversely affect our delivery dates . 
At the figure of £181m. orders would appear appropriate and satisfactory in relation to your business and its annual turnover . 
I would also remind you that the order book in lamps and lighting , domestic appliances and television and radio is , from the nature of the business , only an insignificant percentage of the turnover . 
New Telephone Cable Subsidiary 
Although the deal was not completed until January 1st , as part of the rationalisation in the cable industry , we increased our shareholding in Southern United Telephone Cable Co . 
Ltd. by purchasing from British Insulated Callender 's Cables Ltd. the major proportion of their holding . 
We now own 74 1/2% of the Company . 
Its name has been changed to Telephone Cables Ltd. and it is now a subsidiary . 
The balance of the shares are held by our old associates in this venture , Enfield Cables Ltd. , and it is a matter of satisfaction to all of us to have them as partners . 
The general condition of the electrical industry has made it desirable , and will continue to make it desirable in certain fields , particularly that of research , to engage in co-operative enterprises in order to conserve technical man power and reduce the heavy expense entailed . 
1960 is regarded by your Directors as a disappointing year because the increased profits for which we had budgeted were not realised . 
Cables , Telephones , Lamps and Nuclear Power 
I told you last year that during 1959 we had four parts of our business which were causing us anxiety . 
I recapitulate them : they were cables , telephones , lamps and lighting and nuclear power stations . 
You would wish me to report on them . 
First , we were engaged in rationalising the cable part of our business at a time when demand for cables was particularly buoyant , and when prices were particularly low . 
During 1960 , the average prices of cables in the two main categories , mains cables , and thermo-plastic and rubber-covered cables , were still about 17% below what they were in April 1959 , and since 1959 we have had to absorb both an increase in wages , and the extra cost involved by a shorter working week . 
It proved to be a difficult and complicated task to bring about this rationalisation and the savings consequent upon it , and we were unable to do so quite as quickly as we had expected . 
It is now practically complete and profits should be made in 1961 . 
These facts should make a considerable difference to the revenue of the Company in the present year . 
Secondly , telecommunications . 
Although Governments are unused to thanks , the reorganisation of the Post Office as a trading department , which now does not have to return its surplus at the end of each year to the Treasury , will be widely applauded . 
Its new status enables the Post Office to plan ahead , and we in our turn , as manufacturers , can similarly plan on a more stable foundation , and so bring employment and production into line with the needs of the Post Office . 
The Telecommunications Division , in 1960 , traded at a marginal loss , but the outlook for 1961 is more favourable , and although the equipment which we supply is rigorously costed by the Post Office , we expect a moderate return on the capital employed . 
Thirdly , lamps and lighting . 
For three or four years , and in face of falling prices , we have made strenuous efforts to rationalise our production and to reduce our costs . 
I am glad to say that this long and intricate task is now practically completed . 
In 1960 we increased our share of the market , and traded at a better though still inadequate profit . 
Some further improvement should be made in 1961 . 
Fourthly , nuclear power . 
The Berkeley Station is due to come into commission this year . 
I can tell you no more on the outcome of the contract than to repeat what I said last year , which is that the sum set aside is what prudent people would allow against contingencies . 
I am not in a position to release any of the ear-marked reserve to revenue or to our General Reserves , nor on the other hand do I think it necessary to increase the reserve at this moment . 
You will remember that last year the interests of A.E.I. John Thompson Nuclear Energy Company Ltd. were amalgamated with those of the Nuclear Power Plant Company into a new partnership called The Nuclear Power Group . 
This merger has enabled large savings to be made in technical staff and in costs , and the operations now appear to be adjusted to the likely volume of orders . 
In July 1960 the new Group received the order for the Dungeness Station , the largest projected station at that time . 
The risks involved in tendering for the second station are far less than those involved in the first , when we were breaking new ground , as the earlier problems can now be accurately assessed . 
It should be remembered that competition is still extremely keen , but we expect to make a modest profit upon the station . 
The nuclear generation of power is going to be a permanent feature of the national economy , and both as a source of revenue , and as a protection of our conventional business , the reasons which impelled us to enter this field still seem unassailable . 
I can not but express my disappointment that the engineering and scientific effort at Berkeley may be rewarded with a loss . 
On the other hand , if you regard the money which we may lose as a development expense and not as a contractual loss , large though it may be , it brings the whole subject into closer perspective . 
Such were the four parts of your business which gave us anxiety at the close of 1959 . 
I believe that they are all now in a much better posture . 
DOMESTIC APPLIANCES , RADIO AND TELEVISION COMPONENTS HIT BY HIRE PURCHASE RESTRICTIONS 
Before I deal with the future , there are two other matters concerning 1960 to which I must refer . 
Dorothy Perkins LIMITED A DIFFICULT YEAR MR . 
ALAN FARMER ON THE EFFECTS OF A PAYROLL TAX 
The Annual General Meeting of Dorothy Perkins Limited will be held on August 2nd in London . 
The following are extracts from the Statement by the Chairman , MR . 
ALAN FARMER , as circulated to Shareholders : — 
The year ended 30th April , 1961 , has proved difficult . 
We occupied the Warehouse portion of the new premises at Bracknell early in the year but the completion of the offices has been delayed by some three months so that we have been forced to function with the administration in the West End and with the distribution centre thirty miles away . 
Apart from the administrative difficulties , the delay in the completion has added to our costs . 
We have had to continue to bring our new staff into London from Bracknell to train at Newman Street whilst maintaining a normal complement in the London Offices . 
Both the London staff , who have stayed with us until such time as the move is completed , and the new staff who have joined us have been most patient and co-operative in extremely trying circumstances , and our thanks are due to them and to all our staff , whether they be in the offices , the warehouse or the branches , for the helpful and understanding way in which they have worked with us during this difficult time . 
THE YEAR 'S OPERATIONS 
The group profits for the year ended 30th April , 1961 , amounted , before taxation , to £463,512 compared with £482,230 for 1960 . 
The 1960 accounts covered 53 weeks ' trading so that the group profit for 1961 before taxation of £463,512 is comparable with the £461,848 estimated as earned in the 52 trading weeks in 1960 . 
Although our turnover during the year has shown an increase , a large part of which was due to the opening of new branches , it has not enabled us to take the increased expenses in our stride as hitherto . 
Our subsidiary companies have had a rather disappointing year necessitating , in the case of the retail company , a number of changes which we hope will provide a more satisfactory result in the future . 
It will be recalled that £45,000 was set aside in previous years towards the costs arising in connection with Bracknell . 
Completion having been delayed , we are carrying forward the sum of £18,540 . 
The increase in the rate of profits tax in the 1960 Budget has had full effect in the accounts to 30th April , 1961 , and we are faced with a further increase from April , 1961 . 
The latest increase does not seriously affect the charge in this year 's accounts but will do so in the April , 1962 , accounts . 
The Directors have decided to recommend a Final Dividend upon the Ordinary and " B " Ordinary shares of 15% ( 9d per share ) less Tax making a total of 20% ( 1/- per share ) less Tax paid for 1960 on the capital prior to the one for two scrip issue made in July , 1960 . 
The heavy outlay in the temporary financing by the Company of the new building at Bracknell is reflected in the liquid situation in the balance sheet , the total expenditure to date being £343,430 . 
SUPPLIERS 
We again extend our thanks to our Suppliers for their friendly co-operation during the year . 
We would like them to know that they are always welcome to show their ranges as indeed are those manufacturers with whom we have not yet had the pleasure of doing business . 
DEVELOPMENT AND FUTURE PROSPECTS 
At 30th April , 1961 , we were trading in 166 shops having opened 19 during the year . 
With the heavy initial expenses involved in the opening of each new unit some time elapses before the full earning potential is realised . 
Immediate benefit has not been realised this year from the opening of these shops but we are confident that in due course they will be making their fair contribution to profits . 
I have always stressed the inadvisability of endeavouring to forecast the trends of turnover or of profits bearing in mind the uncertainties of the fashion trade . 
At the time of going to press , in view of the few weeks trading and the variation in the date of the Whitsuntide Holidays , it is not possible to determine any very definite trend of trading at the present time . 
We are taking every step to ensure that we command our full share of the available market and we expect considerable benefit to accrue from the re-organisation of our distribution system following the move to Bracknell . 
A new payroll tax , such as the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposes , could involve this Company in a substantial expense over which it had no control . 
If the maximum amount of 4/- per week per employee was imposed the cost in a full year could amount to £20,000 . 
We exercise the greatest possible economy in our staffing by the use of a part-time staff , and at present this tax appears to take no account of the difference between full time and part-time . 
This proposed tax seems to me to be very inequitable inasmuch as it imposes completely unfair burdens on those businesses who by their very nature must employ a relatively high number of staff to provide identical profits compared with other forms of business enterprise . 
In my last review I said that with the additional expenses arising from the move to Bracknell and the ever increasing operating costs , our progress , so far as the earnings of the business are concerned , might well slow down for a period of time . 
It is important that I should repeat these remarks . 
We do not minimise the problems which have to be faced but we have a young and energetic staff and now that the move is almost completed and we have the facilities available , we are determined to go ahead with the expansion necessary to absorb these extra expenses and to provide additional profits for the continued growth of the Company . 
W. E. NORTON ( HOLDINGS ) LTD . 
CONTINUED EXPANSION 
The annual general meeting of W. E. Norton ( Machine Tools ) Ltd. , was held on July 10 in London , MR . 
W. E. NORTON ( the chairman ) presiding . 
The following is his circulated statement : 
The results achieved by the Company for the period ended 31st March , 1961 reflect the continued progressive growth of the profits of the companies which are now its subsidiaries . 
The Group net profits ( before taxation and Directors ' remuneration ) for the full year to 31st March 1961 show an increase of 67% over the adjusted comparable profits for the preceding year . 
The final dividend of 7 1/2% for the period ended 31st March 1961 compares with the forecast of 6 1/4% made when the Stock Exchange quotation was obtained on 23rd September , 1960 . 
As already announced , the Directors forecast an interim dividend of 7 1/2% payable before 31st December 1961 , in respect of the current year ending 31st March , 1962 . 
The increased profits have come from a corresponding growth in purchases and sales . 
Continuous efforts are made to enlarge our share of the available business in new and secondhand Machine Tools , at home and abroad . 
The sales value of stock held on 31st March , 1961 in this country and overseas was more than three times the value of stock held on the corresponding date in 1960 . 
Our current sales and earnings are well in advance of the results achieved during the same period last year . 
Provided no unforeseen changes occur in the trading pattern , either at home or abroad , I am confident that the Company will continue to make good progress . 
Machine Tools are a pre-requisite for the majority of the goods and services in demand by countries developing basic , primary and secondary industries , just as much as they are an essential to ensure a continuation of the rising standard of living proclaimed by Western Governments to be one of their main concerns . 
The industries which we supply are widely diversified and their needs require many years of specialised study and experience . 
To continue our expansion , we are conscious of the need to train suitable personnel to absorb the particular knowledge required for the efficient conduct of our business . 
We are fortunate , therefore , in having already a nucleus of most able young executives . 
Their loyalty and hard work have greatly contributed to the success of the Company . 
The report was adopted . 
ASSAM FRONTIER TEA 
The 73rd annual general meeting of The Assam Frontier Tea Company Limited will be held on August 2 in London . 
The following is an extract from the circulated statement of the chairman , SIR CHARLES MILES , O.B.E. : 
The profit for the year ended 31st December , 1960 , amounts to £498,726 , and after charging Depreciation of £74,000 , there is a balance of £424,726 , which compares with £302,624 for the year 1959 . 
Contrary to the experience of some Assam producers , your Company was not affected by the drought , and , with an increasing yield from the young tea areas , the crop was the highest so far secured in the Company 's history , the yield from our Assam estates rising from 1,100 lbs . 
to 1,204 lbs . 
per acre . 
Sales proceeds increased by over £230,000 but against this there was a rise of approximately £100,000 in upkeep expenditure , largely due to the extra crop harvested . 
We recommend the payment of a final dividend of 7 per cent . 
on the Preferred Stock , making 10 per cent . 
for the year , and a dividend of 25 per cent . 
on the Ordinary Stock . 
With regard to the current year , our crop to the middle of June is 1,279,920 lbs. , a decrease of 224,400 lbs . 
when compared with the same period last year . 
During the latter part of May and early in June the weather was unusually cold and wet , and growth was checked at a time when the quality teas of the year are made . 
Reports on our early manufacture , however , are satisfactory . 
LEWIS & PEAT , LIMITED YEAR OF CONSOLIDATION 
The 41st annual general meeting of Lewis & Peat , Limited will be held on August 2 in London . 
The following is an extract from the circulated statement of the chairman , MR . 
HERBERT BOYDEN : 
I would like to mention that , after the period of expansion of the group , your Board has in the last year concentrated mainly on the consolidation of the group 's activities . 
As forecast , the trading profit of the group before charging taxation , amounting to £231,279 , shows a slight increase over the figure of £214,396 for the previous year . 
After deducting taxation of £114,220 , and adjusting for the interests of outside shareholders in subsidiary companies and pre-acquisition profits of subsidiaries , there remains a balance of £103,654 . 
The total distribution to equity shareholders for the year is £36,444 , and is covered more than two and a half times by earnings . 
Commodity Interests : In addition to the diversification of the group 's activities which has taken place in recent years , we have retained an interest in our traditional commodity business . 
Rubber , edible oils , oilseeds , oilcake , and spices as well as cocoa are still being dealt with through our subsidiary or associated companies . 
We have also retained our interest , through a subsidiary , in the natural fibre business where we have had a most successful year under comparatively difficult conditions . 
Far East : Lewis & Peat ( Singapore ) Ltd. have maintained their position in the Far Eastern market and have further strengthened their business by acquiring W. H. Day & Co . 
Ltd. in May , 1960 . 
We have further widened our sphere of activities in the Far East by acquiring an investment in the leading sharebroking firm in Malaya and present indications are that this will prove a useful source of income to the group . 
West Africa : Our activities in this area have continued to grow . 
Our export business particularly continues to expand satisfactorily and I am of the opinion that there is a good market in these territories as their economies continue to develop . 
We have recently taken steps to participate in two industrial enterprises in Nigeria , which we believe will make a satisfactory contribution to the group results in course of time . 
There are spacious grounds at the University and at the Halls . 
Provision is made in the University grounds for the playing of football , hockey , cricket , tennis and squash rackets , and elsewhere for badminton , rowing and swimming . 
There is a first-class running track . 
Facilities for recreational physical activities are provided in the gymnasium . 
GENERAL INFORMATION ADMISSION OF STUDENTS 
Applicants for admission to a degree course in the University must be at least 17 years of age on 1 October in the year of their admission , and must , before the beginning of the session in which they wish to enter the University , be eligible to matriculate . 
The Ordinance and Regulations governing Matriculation and entrance to a particular Faculty are published on pages 104 and 145 . 
Forms of Application for admission may be obtained from the Registrar . 
Candidates may be required to attend at the University for interview . 
Occasional and part-time students may be admitted to attend lectures with the permission of the Head of the Department concerned without satisfying the normal conditions for entry . 
ADMISSION OF OVERSEAS STUDENTS 
Applications from overseas students must be accompanied by a statement from the appropriate Government Office or from the person or body which will be responsible for the applicant 's maintenance , certifying that he will receive adequate financial support for the duration of his course . 
Applications will not be considered without such an assurance . 
SUBMISSION OF APPLICATIONS 
Applications of candidates from overseas will be considered only if they are submitted to the University either by the Students ' Branch of the Colonial Office ( 2 Sanctuary Buildings , Great Smith Street , London , S.W.1 ) or by the appropriate official representative of their countries in London . 
Applications from candidates wishing to attend occasional lectures for a period not exceeding one session may be submitted direct to the University . 
REGISTRATION 
The University session opens in the first or second week of October each year . 
Students are required to register on the first three days of each session . 
All freshmen entering upon a degree course must at the time of registration or within seven days present evidence of their eligibility to matriculate to the Assistant Registrar ( Academic ) . 
DISCIPLINE 
The University Regulations are published on page 132 . 
ENTRY FOR EXAMINATIONS 
All students must obtain the consent of the Dean of the Faculty concerned before entering for examinations , and must take the examinations at the time approved by the Dean . 
No student may postpone or withdraw registration or entry for any examination without the consent of the Dean . 
Students whose progress is considered by the Senate to be unsatisfactory may be required to withdraw from the University . 
Failure in an examination may be regarded as evidence of unsatisfactory progress . 
See also University Regulations , Section 3 , page 133 . 
RESIDENCE 
The University is in principle residential , in the sense that all full-time students for whom there is room are required to live in Halls of Residence . 
In view of the growth in numbers the accommodation in the Halls is , however , now insufficient to house all the students not living at home . 
Approximately half of the places in Hall are reserved for first-year students and a majority of the remaining places are allocated to second-year students . 
Forms of Application for Residence will be sent to all candidates to whom an offer of a place in the University is made . 
Students ( other than those living at home ) who are not offered accommodation in Hall must live in lodgings approved by the University . 
The allocation of first-year students to Halls is made by the Wardens and students who are required to reside in approved lodgings will be put in touch with the Warden of Lodgings . 
Students must take up residence in Hall or lodgings on the first day of each Term . 
A limited number of students in their second or third years who have previously been in lodgings are admitted to Hall . 
Applications should be made to the Warden . 
UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICE 
A comprehensive health service for students is provided under the direction of the University Medical Officer . 
All students are required to undergo a medical examination during the first session and at such times afterwards as the Medical Officer may advise . 
Students are also strongly advised to make use of the facilities available annually at the University for chest X-ray examination . 
All students , except those living locally and therefore registered with a local doctor , should re-register under the National Health Service arrangements with the University Medical Officer or with a local medical practitioner . 
Students in Hall should consult their Warden before re-registration . 
For purposes of re-registration students must bring with them to Hull their National Health Medical Card . 
( See also University Regulations , Section 5 , page 134 . ) 
Sick students , where illness is likely to last more than 24 hours , are admitted from Hall , and , when desirable , from lodgings to the Sick Bay , where they will be in the care of the Medical Officer and the Sister of the Sick Bay . 
Students living in Hall or lodgings will pay a fee towards the cost of the service of £1 1s. per session ; students living at home will pay 10s. 6d. per session . 
REFECTORIES 
Facilities are provided in the Students ' Union Building , for morning coffee , luncheon , tea and evening meals . 
There is a separate Staff Refectory for the use of the academic staff . 
UNIVERSITY REGULATIONS GENERAL 
The University expects its students to conduct themselves at all times in an orderly manner creditable to the good name of the University . 
Regulations for the maintenance of good order and discipline are promulgated from time to time . 
It is the duty of all students to take notice of the Regulations and to know and observe them . 
Students on admission must sign a declaration that they will observe the Ordinances of the University and will conform to all such regulations as may from time to time be made for the maintenance of order in the University . 
Students must also make themselves conversant with the academic regulations in the University Calendar . 
Regulations relating to Halls of Residence , Lodgings and the University Library , have the same force as University Regulations and any breach of them may be dealt with as a breach of University discipline . 
UNIVERSITY TERMS 
1 . 
The official dates of University terms as published in the Calendar apply to all students . 
Students ( other than new students at the opening of a session and research students ) are required to arrive in Hull on the first day of term and , except with the special permission of the Dean of their Faculty , may not go down until the last day . 
The first and last days of term as published are regarded as travelling days on which no lectures or classes will be held . 
The residence of research students will be governed by the requirements of their Head of Department or Supervisor . 
( a ) Permission to go down before the end of Term ( Exeat ) : An exeat will be granted only in special circumstances . 
Students must apply to the Dean personally , having first obtained an exeat form from the Dean 's office . 
( b ) Temporary Absence during Term ( Absit ) : Leave of absence may be granted during University terms subject to departmental and other academic requirements and to the Halls of Residence and lodgings regulations . 
Leave for three successive nights will ordinarily be granted only if it includes a Saturday and Sunday . 
The power of granting temporary leave of absence during terms has been delegated by the Deans to Heads of Departments ; students seeking such leave should first obtain an absit form from the Dean 's office . 
( A copy of the full supplementary regulations relating to exeats and absits may be obtained from the Registrar 's Office . ) 
REGISTRATION AND PAYMENT OF FEES 
2 . 
Students must register for classes and examinations and pay any fee prescribed and any other University dues on the dates and at the times laid down in Official Notices . 
CLASSES AND EXAMINATIONS 
3 . 
Students must follow throughout the terms the courses for which they are registered and attend such classes and such examinations as are required by the University or by the Heads of the Departments concerned . 
No student may change his course without the permission of the Heads of the Departments concerned and of the Dean of the Faculty . 
No student may enter for a University examination or an examination conducted by some other examining body without the consent of the Dean of his Faculty . 
In the case of external examination such consent is normally given only if the examination is for a professional qualification closely related to the student 's course . 
Consent for entry to examinations is normally given when the Dean or his deputy signs the student 's registration form at the beginning of session . 
Students must enter on their registration form particulars of any external examinations which they propose to take during the session . 
University examinations of any kind will in all cases take priority over any other examinations which a student wishes to take . 
Students absent from classes must report such absence within the first two days to the Warden in the case of students residing in Hall and to the University Registry in the case of all other students . 
In the case of illness students in lodgings must also report such absence to the Warden of Lodgings . 
GOWNS 
4 . 
All full-time students reading for a degree or diploma must wear approved academic dress at examinations , on ceremonial occasions , at official interviews with University Officers and members of the academic staff , and also at lectures unless Senate on the recommendation of a Board of Faculty shall for special reasons determine otherwise . 
Gowns will not be worn in laboratories . 
HEALTH 
5 . 
Students , other than those living at home , are required to bring their National Health Service Medical Cards to Hull and to register under the National Health Service either with the University Medical Officer ( Dr. R. Raines ) , or with a local medical practitioner . 
Students must inform the Registrar , in the manner prescribed from time to time , of the name of the doctor in Hull or district with whom they have registered . 
All students are required to present themselves for a medical examination during their first year , and at such times afterwards as the University Medical Officer may advise . 
They are strongly advised to make use of the facilities provided annually at the University for chest X-ray examination . 
Students absent from classes owing to illness must report such absence within the first two days to the Warden in the case of students residing in Hall , Warden of Lodgings in the case of students in lodgings , and to the University Registry in the case of all other students . 
VEHICLES 
6 . 
Students are permitted to bring vehicles into the University grounds and park them there on the following conditions . 
This permission may be expressly withdrawn by the Registrar at any time . 
( a ) Registration . 
Students regularly parking cars , motor-cycles or any other mechanically propelled vehicles within the University grounds must register such vehicles at the Registrar 's Office before the expiration of one week from the beginning of each session . 
Any newly acquired vehicle must be registered immediately . 
( b ) Parking . 
Detailed regulations may be promulgated from time to time specifying { 6inter alia the times during which and the entrances by which , cars , motor-cycles and other mechanically propelled vehicles may be brought into and taken out of the University grounds , and the places in which such vehicles may be parked . 
Similar regulations may be made for pedal cycles . 
No cycle may be parked , even temporarily , near any building except as authorised by the regulations . 
Cycles parked in unauthorised places may be moved and may be impounded until any fine which may be imposed has been paid . 
( c ) Vehicles other than cycles not equipped with means of mechanical propulsion , must not be left over-night in the University grounds without the permission of the Registrar . 
( d ) No vehicle may be left in the University grounds during vacations and the University authorities shall have power to deal with any vehicle so left by causing it to be removed in the name and at the cost of the student responsible , and by having it put in any private or public place which the University may find convenient . 
FAMILY GUIDE TO AUTUMN FOOTWEAR Exciting Colours New Toe Styles 
A PARTIAL retreat from the sharply-pointed Italian toe is indicated in the autumn footwear presentations . 
Taking a look recently at the collection from CWS factories I noted a number of interesting models with the newer square toe . 
Another new style feature is the wine-glass or flared heel , which was shown teamed up with pointed , squared , and chisel toes . 
Colour is highly important in choosing autumn footwear . 
The autumn range of shades is almost bewildering , and there are some exciting new-comers , such as conker calf and charcoal , rocco and Russian violet . 
Quite a lot of attention has been paid by the designers to comfort as well as style in this collection exclusively created for Britain 's Co-operative stores . 
I noted the " bagged " toplines and tailored ankle fittings , exemplified in a black calf shoe from Norwich which is also available in tan calf and mushroom . 
The comfort element is particularly marked in the Elizabeth shoe family , expressly designed for those of us whose feet are no longer youthful , but who nevertheless like to be fashionably shod . 
None of us could ask for a smarter number , for instance , than a black softie calf shoe with a cushioned heel sock , arch support , and elasticised forepart . 
It is offered also in charcoal . 
For younger feet the famous Countrysider range brings in the casual . 
Gristle soles and chisel toes are features here , as in an attractive model in dark green and maize . 
These new Countrysiders , with their up-to-the-minute fashion features — including the kidney-shaped toepiece — are likely to retain their popularity with our teenagers . 
Fashion these days is as apparent in male footwear as in women 's , and this collection offered both square and chisel toe in its stylings — and here again colour is an essential fashion feature . 
Interesting to see our men breaking away from those traditional browns and blacks into more interesting shades — as in one of the new Ardingtons shown in the rich dark brown which is going to be one of the autumn 's most popular footwear shades for men . 
As in the autumn clothes collections I have seen , the young folk 's styles tend to be junior editions of their elders ' . 
For the girls , toe styles run to both the medium pointed and the chisel , and the maids ' casuals incorporate the kitten heel , bagged tops , and chisel toes . 
Similarly , the boys ' shoes reveal the new toe shape in varying degrees , and one of the Leeds numbers shown me had a vamp decorated in Terylene braid . 
More modish still was a pointed-toe model with a highly masculine-looking buckle , and resin soled ; and a rubber-soled casual in the latest styling , unlined , with elastic side insertions and smooth saddle running across the forepart . 
— D.L.R. BED-TIME LUXURY 
EIDERDOWNS are slippery objects , as restless nights are only too apt to prove . 
To keep you from being left in the cold by these unaccommodating articles the CWS Pelaw Quilt Factory have introduced a new item into their range . 
In the past they have featured a large number of quilts with matching bedspreads . 
Now they are offering you the two in one , in the form of a quilt with matching valance attached . 
This is gusseted to ensure a snug fit over the pillows and the whole has the appearance of an eiderdown covering a bedspread . 
For sheer luxurious warmth in the middle of winter nothing could compare with another newcomer to the range , a continental style quilt . 
Filled with pure down , it is made in down-proof super cambric stitched into four panels . 
There is no danger of this slipping off the bed for it folds cosily around you as you turn . 
The price of about 14 guineas may appear high , but this quilt is designed to last a lifetime . 
You can choose from a colour range of rose , gold , green , blue , and beige , all piped with white . 
During the past two years washable quilts in man-made fibres have come to the fore . 
The Pelaw range includes printed nylons , Terylenes and Tricels , all with Tricel or Terylene fillings . 
These with their flower-scattered designs would add glamour to any bedroom . 
A dainty rose pattern is used for a printed Tricel quilt with frilled edge and plain Tricel back . 
This delightful model can be bought in rose , gold , blue , and lilac , and costs about £5 7s. 6d . 
ANOTHER pretty quilt with printed Terylene front and plain nylon frill and back sells for about £6 12s . 
The colours available are rose , blue , gold , and cerise . 
The traditionally styled quilts are still highly popular , and are harder wearing than those made from man-made fibres . 
An attractive model in embroidered crepe with ruched centre and scalloped edge is made in dark rose , light rose , gold , green , blue , oyster , wine , and lavender . 
It has a feather filling and down-proof back and the price is about £7 10s. 6d . 
A reversible quilt in rose , beige , green , blue , wine , or black , is extremely reasonably priced at £3 16s. 6d . 
This feather-filled model is in down-proof cambric . 
All prices given are for double-bed size . 
Grandmothers-to-be should make a note to look at the pretty range of pram sets in nylon with Terylene fillings . 
These have delicate designs on the covers and plain matching pillow-cases . 
The prices range from about £1 14s. 6d. to £2 , and the colours are pink , sky , ivory , and lemon . 
SHIRTS are his business says ROBERT PEMBERTON 
ARE you still wearing a shirt with separate collars and a closed front , Mr. Grundy ? 
If you are you can count yourself as rather a " square , " as young Ron would put it in his jargon . 
In other words you are a little old-fashioned , because 90 out of every 100 males are wearing the collar-attached tunic shirt . 
The non-iron and drip-dry are also highly favoured nowadays . 
Where ironing is necessary the busy housewife finds it much easier to make a good job of pressing the open-front type of shirt . 
I was told this during an interesting chat I had with Mr. R. Hunt , who manages the CWS Shirt , Pyjama , and Overall Group of five factories at Broughton , Pelaw , Cardiff , Sheffield , and Reading . 
" Men are not as colour-conscious as women , " Mr. Hunt told me , " and they are inclined to be more conservative as they grow older . 
There is always a big demand for white , checks are called for quite a lot , especially by the younger men , and there is an indication of a return to stripes . 
Pastel shades have lost some of their popularity . " 
UNTIL I toured the Broughton factory I never realised how much research and planning goes into the making of a top-class shirt such as those made at the CWS 's Broughton , Pelaw , and Cardiff factories . 
So many synthetic materials , such as nylons , Terylene , Acrilan , and rayon , are used in the manufacture of shirts that extra care has to be taken to ensure that the inter-linings and the sewing cotton shrink in the same ratio as the main fabric . 
" In my long experience in the trade there have never been as many technical and scientific problems as there are today , " said Mr. Hunt . 
" In the production of drip-dry shirts the collar inter-linings are treated with a water repellant , and new types of inter-linings have had to be introduced for the shirts manufactured from man-made fibres . " 
Everything is done methodically and thoroughly to get the best results . 
For instance , as many as 500 prototypes of the collar of the well-known Lestar shirt were produced , washed , and tested for wear until the near-perfect collar was discovered . 
And there is no resting on their laurels . 
While the Lestar shirt has been an outstanding success for some time , modifications are made when necessary to improve it and keep it right on top . 
No other manufacturer makes such a wide variety of shirts as the CWS . 
Society shirts are made to please all types of wearer , from the artisan to the executive , and for all occasions . 
It does n't matter either whether you are a giant or a dwarf , your Co-operative society can fit you out with a CWS shirt . 
The Broughton was recently called upon for a shirt with a 22 1/2 in. collar and a 66 in. chest measurement . 
ALL the latest machines and gadgets for doing the job speedily and efficiently can be found at the factories , and it is obvious , after seeing them at work in the bright and modern Broughton factory , that there are no more skilful operatives than the girls and men who make the popular Society shirts under their various brand names . 
In making two million garments a year 4,000 miles of cloth are used — 70 per cent of it from CWS mills . 
The factories require 146,000 miles of sewing cotton , 13 million buttons , 12 million pins , 1 1/2 million transparent bags , and 500,000 boxes . 
Not too old at 40 
OLD people are younger today ! 
You have only to look around to realise that they have moved with the times just as much as the younger generation . 
Most middle-aged folk can well remember the days when their mothers and grandmothers dressed in sober hues , usually black . 
Life stopped at 50 and old age began . 
Old ladies walked with sticks and often wore veils . 
If they wore anything colourful it was confined to a touch of white round the collar . 
What a change since then ! 
Grannies dress as brightly as their daughters these days , and a jolly good thing , too . 
Mothers look just as charming as their offspring and often nearly as young . 
Statistics , too , show that people are living longer . 
A brighter outlook on life plus , of course , many far-reaching advances in medicine , is partly responsible . 
But as older people keep younger so does the need for finding suitable occupations for them increase . 
There is nothing more frustrating than to feel unwanted . 
In this modern world with its full employment and , indeed , its clamour for more and more people to fill a wide variety of jobs , the older person has much to offer the community . 
Although the advertisement columns of the papers sometimes admit this with their invitation " age immaterial " there is still in some quarters a reluctance to recognise that "too old at forty " is a very out-dated tag for these times . 
While people are fit and well the world has much use for them . 
That is why this month 's HOME MAGAZINE includes an important article on the work of the Over Forty-Fives Association which , in the words of one of its officials , regards a man of 45 as " a mere chicken " and has found work for people as old as 80 . 
It is an unfortunate aspect of the otherwise excellent pension arrangements which many firms offer today that they frequently do not allow for employment of older people . 
With everyone now enjoying a State pension when they reach the necessary age , it should not be impossible to find a solution to the problem of individual schemes . 
Not only have older people much to offer , they find many benefits themselves in continuing to work , providing their health is good enough . 
The contact with younger people , the feeling that they are playing a part in the world around them , the interest their work can hold for them — all are valuable aids to a complete and happy life . 
Those who are in a position to engage staff might well think of these factors when they next fill a position . 
Meanwhile HOME MAGAZINE offers you this month its usual rich variety , including Mary Langham 's recipes to keep you well ahead in your Christmas preparations . 
The Editor HOUSEWIVES ' CLUB 
SHOP SLEUTH brings you bargains for your Christmas shopping list . 
All items are available through your local Co-operative Society . 
For further details write to Housewives ' Club , HOME MAGAZINE , 1 Balloon St. , Manchester 4 , enclosing a stamped addressed envelope . 
READY-PACKED in a Christmas stocking is a tool kit containing a 6 oz. hammer , a plastic handled screwdriver , trimming knife and three blades , bradawl , card of fuse wire , and one packet each of assorted screws and panel pins . 