Introduction 
What a world of graceful accomplishment lies in a piece of finely worked hand-made lace ! 
The very word lace has a charming derivation , stemming through the Old French las , coming from the Latin laqueus , a snare , allied to lacere , to entice . 
Certainly all who make a study of lace-craft become enmeshed in a highly coloured history — a pattern of proud queens and pious ecclesiastics , of statesmen , burghers and poor , under-privileged people . 
All the human passions are drawn in its threads , from saintliness to downright sinfulness , for it shows the smuggler running " laces for a lady " and the highwayman meeting death upon the gallows " in a fine show of hand-made lace " . 
As to the origins of lace-making in this country , they are difficult to trace , but we know that it existed in the thirteenth century by virtue of an old rule for English nuns , cautioning them against devoting too much time to lace-making to the detriment of the poor ! 
The earliest laces that survive today are , in fact , almost invariably those made by nuns for use on Church linen and vestments . 
It was n't long , however , before less pious hands took up the lovely craft of lace-making . 
Lace became the servant of vanity and lent its rich decoration to robes and dresses and one thinks particularly of the extravagant Elizabethan ruffs and Carolean collars . 
Under Cromwell lace was dismissed as ungodly — at least for the middle and lower classes . 
But the Puritan beauties managed to salve their consciences and at the same time indulge their love for beautiful lace by representing subjects from the Scriptures in their designs — " religious petticoats " , scoffed the satirists of the day . 
We know from the diaries of Samuel Pepys that he was a great man for lace — paying as much as £3 for a lace collar . 
But this did n't mean he was prepared to do as much for his lady , for he records testily : " My wife and I fell out about my not being willing to have her gown laced . " 
We read , with sympathy , an advertisement in the reign of Charles 2 stating : " Lost : a lawn handkercher with a broad hem laced round with fine Point lace about four fingers broad " and among the effects left by Nell Gwyn is an unpaid bill for " scarlet satin shoes with silver lace " . 
The records of these tender trifles are very touching but then lace does place upon everything a delicate sentiment . 
Lucky indeed are the families that possess a heritage of lace . 
A lace bridal veil handed down from mother to daughters , a lace-trimmed Christening robe that each generation wears in turn — these are proud possessions , linked to the exquisite lace-making of the past . 
But lace-making is by no means a lost art . 
It suffered a decline and fell into lamentably low standards in the fussy over-furnishing of the Victorian age but it would take more than a temporary lapse in good taste to destroy this lovely , viable craft . 
It has , in fact , readily adapted itself to modern tastes and the illustrations in the following pages will show how completely it is in sympathy with contemporary surroundings . 
It will be seen how , with bold design and rich colour , knitting , crochet and tatting in fine and medium-weight cottons can give striking individuality to many things in the home . 
Chairbacks , cushions , tablecloths , to mention only three — how satisfying it is to avoid the ready-made in these and by one 's own handiwork produce something that reflects true creative talent . 
The more delicate patterns and finer threads may be reserved to bring a light and lovely touch to personal possessions — a lace border to a handkerchief , fine-lace insertion on a petticoat or blouse , a tatted edge to a collar ; these add a charming , feminine distinction that nothing else can give . 
Although we assess lace-making as one of the feminine skills , a number of the well-loved traditional patterns that we follow today were , in fact , the brain-children of inventive men . 
For in the old order of things , men designed and worked lace as well as women and special schools were set up to teach lace-making not only to young girls , but to little boys as well . 
Whole families made their livelihood by lace-making and consequently a folklore of song , festival and courtship grew up around the lace industry . 
Those who are interested in its history will enjoy reading about the charming coquetteries the lace-makers practised . 
That their work required smooth white hands and delicate fingers gave them a refinement apart from the rest of the community . 
In presenting this book of lace-craft today , we remember with deep gratitude all who gave their skills to lace design and lace making . 
Not only do we remember them for their great accomplishments in a hard-working lifetime but we are grateful that they handed on their knowledge to others . 
For the whole structure of the craft is founded on inherited skills . 
We who love lace-craft hope that you will enjoy the work that this book offers in such variety — but at the same time , may we make a plea that you will also guide other hands to pick up the threads ? 
Only with the knowledge handed down by mother to daughter , by teacher to pupil , can this fascinating and deeply satisfying craft continue to give its rewards to younger generations . 
CROCHET STITCHES 
The art of crochet is very old indeed , but from the details available it has never been possible to give any accurate information as to its history . 
It would appear to have been associated with France , as its name is in fact the French word for hook , and a small hook is used in the making of crochet lace . 
During the sixteenth century a considerable amount of crochet was produced in the convents of Europe . 
Without doubt it was the nuns who carried the craft to Ireland . 
There it was developed into quite an elaborate and distinctive form with rosettes , leaves and lace fillings . 
During the time of Victoria this gentle craft was greatly abused . 
One can remember with horror the pictures of the overcrowded and over-embellished drawing-rooms complete with heavy crochet antimacassars , mantelpiece covers with a fringing of clumsy bobbles and numerous other crocheted pieces . 
It was some years after the Victorian period that designers realised the potentialities of the craft , and crochet was revived with designs suitable for contemporary trends . 
Crochet today has a variety of uses , and has even stepped into the field of high fashion . 
In some of the elegant boutiques of Paris hand-crocheted blouses , gossamer fine in texture , are sold at a very high price . 
With a little time and concentration the woman at home can produce fashion articles as elegant as those of Paris — a blouse , delicate gloves or a fine edging for collar , cuffs or a handkerchief . 
In the home , crochet lace can be used to make tablecloths , traycloths and runners , and edgings from heavy to fine can fulfil a variety of functions . 
The art of crochet is not difficult and it is reasonably quick to work . 
In the following pages simple diagrams and instructions are given to enable the beginner to master all the essential crochet stitches . 
From these a selection of designs are included which show the use of the individual stitches . 
Finally , notes and designs are included on all the various styles of crochet , motifs , edgings , doilies , filet crochet , church laces , pineapple pattern and Irish crochet . 
CROCHET ABBREVIATIONS 
ch — chain ; ss — slip stitch ; dc — double crochet ; hlf tr — half treble ; tr — treble ; dbl tr — double treble ; trip tr — triple treble ; quad tr — quadruple treble ; quint tr — quintuple treble ; rnd — round ; blk — block ; sp — space ; st(s) — stitch(es) . 
* ( Asterisk ) : Repeat the instructions following the asterisk as many more times as specified , in addition to the original . 
Sometimes in the directions you will see the following phrases : 1 . 
Repeat from * across . 
2 . 
Repeat from * all round . 
3 . 
Repeat from *3 ( or any number ) times more . 
In Nos. 1 and 2 follow the directions from the first to the last * ( asterisk ) completely across row or all round . 
In No. 3 follow the directions from the first * ( asterisk ) as many times as specified . 
Repeat instructions in parentheses as many times as specified . 
For example , " ( 5 ch , 1 dc in next dc ) 5 times " means to make all in parentheses 5 times in all . 
INSERTING CROCHET INTO LINEN 
First launder crochet and then pin to the required shape , ensuring that all lines of the crochet are accurate . 
Place crochet in correct position on linen and secure with pins . 
Run a line of basting stitches on the linen following the outline of the crochet edges which are to be attached to the linen . 
Remove crochet . 
Two methods can be used to join the crochet to the linen : ( a ) Button Stitch round the outline of basting stitches , the knotted part of the button stitch lying on the outside edge . 
Oversew crochet to button stitch . 
( b ) Turn under a small hem , with fold lying on line of basting stitches . 
Work a row of dc all round this hem , with 3 dc at each corner . 
Oversew crochet to the dc . 
COATS MERCER-CROCHET 
A household word , Coats Mercer-Crochet possesses qualities which are of the utmost importance to the worker . 
It washes beautifully , never loses its colour nor becomes "stringy " , is very elastic and preserves the beauty of the design . 
It is easy to work with , soft , glossy and of uniform thickness — it is the ideal crochet thread . 
Obtainable in the following shades : HOW TO TURN YOUR WORK 
In crochet a certain number of chain stitches are added at the end of each row to bring work in position for the next row . 
Then the work is turned so that the reverse side is facing the worker . 
The number of turning chains depends upon the stitch with which you intend to begin the next row . 
Double crochet ( dc ) — 1 ch to turn ; half treble ( hlf tr ) — 2 ch to turn ; treble ( tr ) — 3 ch to turn ; double treble ( dbl tr ) — 4 ch to turn ; triple treble ( trip tr ) — 5 ch to turn ; quadruple treble ( qua tr ) — 6 ch to turn ; quintuple treble ( quint tr ) — 7 ch to turn . 
CROCHET THREADS 
Remember that texture plays an important part in the beauty of crochet . 
The finer mercerised threads are more effective for the delicate designs used for tablecloths , doilies , edgings and accessories , while the heavier threads are used for bedspreads , chairbacks , luncheon mats , etc . 
CROCHET HOOKS 
Crochet hooks are made of steel , composition or bone . 
Steel crochet hooks range in size from number 3/0 , the largest , to number 8 , the smallest . 
Each size of hook is made for use with a certain size of thread . 
To ensure the correct results , it is important that you use the size of hook specified in the directions . 
These are the correct numbers to use with Mercer-Crochet : PRACTICE PIECES 
Directions are given for a small practice piece for each stitch that you learn . 
When you have become proficient in these stitches , attractive articles can be made from the directions included in this book . 
Step 1 — Make a Loop 
1 . 
Grasp thread near end between thumb and forefinger . 
2 . 
Make a loop by lapping long thread over short thread . 
3 . 
Hold loop in place between thumb and forefinger ( Fig. 1 ) . 
Step 2 
1 . 
Take hold of broad bar of hook as you would a pencil . 
Bring middle finger forward to rest near tip of hook . 
2 . 
Insert hook through loop and under long thread . 
Catch long end of thread ( Fig. 2 ) . 
Draw loop through . 
3 . 
Do not remove hook from thread . 
Step 3 
Pull short end and ball thread in opposite directions to bring loop close around the end of the hook , but not too tight ( Fig. 3 ) . 
Step 4 
Loop thread round little finger , across palm and behind forefinger ( Fig. 4 ) . 
Step 5 
1 . 
Grasp hook and loop between thumb and forefinger . 
2 . 
Gently pull ball thread so that it lies around the fingers firmly but not tightly ( Fig. 5 ) . 
MAKING TAPERED LEGS 
A great deal of modern furniture has tapered legs , and in reproduction period pieces they are frequently used . 
The simpler varieties are extremely easy to work , the four sides being simply planed to give the required taper . 
In the more elaborate varieties , however , a toe is worked in the solid , and this certainly complicates the operation . 
It is not difficult , but calls for accurate workmanship . 
Perhaps the awkward feature is that the plane can only be used to a limited extent because the projecting toe prevents its being taken right through 
WHEN A LEG has a simple taper the procedure of making it is straightforward . 
The wood is first planed parallel to the largest section , and pencil lines marking the beginning of the taper squared round on to all four sides . 
At the bottom end the extent of the taper is gauged in , again on all four sides . 
It is a help , too , if the marks are nicked in to the extent of about 1/8 in. ( no more ) on two opposite faces , though this is not essential . 
Fig. 2(A) shows the idea . 
Two opposite faces are now planed to the gauge lines , a panel or trying plane being used for legs of any length . 
For short ones a smoothing plane can be used . 
The gauge can now be used to nick in the tapers on the newly planed surfaces , and these treated as before . 
It is unnecessary to mark the taper with the straight-edge as one relies upon the truth of the plane sole to make the tapered surfaces straight . 
A glance at the gauge marks at the bottom end reveals when the required amount has been removed , and if care is taken to stop the plane short of the squared pencil line at the top , the work will be accurate . 
The straight-edge can be used to test the straightness of the sides . 
Incidentally , it is better to complete any mortising that may be needed at the top before the tapering is begun . 
Some plain tapered legs have the taper on the two inner faces only , the outer surfaces being vertical as at ( B ) , Fig. 1 . 
Leg with toe 
To make a leg such as that at ( D ) , Fig. 1 , the square is first marked out as at ( A ) , Fig. 3 . 
Note that squared lines marking the top member of the toe are needed as well as the upper extent of the taper , and in this case it is necessary to mark in the line of the taper with pencil and straight-edge as at ( B ) , Fig. 3 . 
A saw cut is made at the upper toe line exactly down to the taper line , no farther . 
It is a help in guiding the saw if the line is squared round with the chisel , and a sloping groove chiselled on the waste side . 
With a keen , wide chisel the wood is now eased away above the toe as at ( B ) . 
A mallet used to the chisel is a great help providing care is taken not to cut in too deeply . 
Finish off with hand pressure only , and make the final cut so that the notch is in alignment with the line of the taper . 
The rest of the taper can now be largely worked with the smoothing plane . 
It is necessary to work largely across the grain , holding the plane askew as otherwise it will not clear the toe . 
Fig. 4 shows the smoothing plane in use on the leg . 
To finish off it is often a help to use a wide flat file taken along the taper in the direction of the grain . 
The bullnose plane is also invaluable . 
This is followed by the scraper , and finally by glasspaper wrapped around a flat block used as at ( C ) . 
The remaining two sides follow . 
It is necessary to draw in pencil lines on the newly tapered surfaces , but the method of cutting is exactly the same , ( D ) , Fig. 3 . 
The toe 
For convenience in handling it is convenient to work the hollow moulding before planing the taper of the toe . 
Mark in with pencil the depth of the hollow , using the pencil and finger as a gauge , and cut a chamfer with a keen chisel on all four sides as at ( D ) . 
Cut inwards with the chisel from each side so that the far corner does not splinter . 
The cut is taken down to the two pencil lines . 
To work the hollow a rat-tail file can be used in its entirety as at ( E ) , or the bulk of the waste can be removed with a small gouge , and the file used to finish off . 
In any case glasspaper wrapped around a shaped rubber is used to smooth the hollow finally . 
To complete the toe the smoothing plane can be used to form the taper . 
Finish the two opposite sides first , and follow with the two remaining faces . 
Machined legs 
It will be realised that those who have a machine planer can work a plain tapered leg in its entirety on it , and also a fairly close approximation of the leg with toe . 
For instance , the design at ( F ) , Fig. 1 , is formed entirely on the planer . 
The process is shown in Figs. 5 and 7 . 
The rear table is set level with the tips of the cutters as in normal planing , but the front one is lowered by an amount equal to the full depth of the taper . 
Two stops are fixed to the fence to limit the travel of the leg . 
The square of wood is held level with the near stop and is lowered on to the revolving cutters . 
The wood is pushed forward until it reaches the back stop . 
Note the use of the pusher stick as in Fig. 7 . 
Each side is dealt with in the same way . 
When the taper has to begin at the extreme top of the leg , either the leg must be cut about 1/4 in. long , or the taper must be started about a similar amount below the top and finished afterwards by hand . 
The reason for this is that when the square is lowered on to the revolving cutters at the start of the cut it must rest on the lip of the back table as in Fig. 6 . 
Unless it does so it will be grabbed by the cutters and chewed down to the extent of the full depth . 
Apart from spoiling the leg it may easily cause an accident and may stall the machine . 
WHAT DOES IT COST TO START WOODWORK ? 
ONLY THOSE WHO have done woodwork for any length of time can realise the fascination it has . 
Many a man has started to make something in wood , possibly out of economic necessity , and has then continued to do woodwork from the sheer joy of doing it . 
Something begun in compulsion has become a thing of lasting satisfaction . 
But why woodwork in particular ? 
Well , there are many reasons . 
Wood is in good and common supply ; it lends itself to making innumerable useful household items — furniture , fitments , garden items , toys , etc. ; it enables results to be obtained fairly quickly ; it is less expensive than most other materials ; it is a pleasant material to work with ; and , although it does create a certain amount of mess , it is all clean and easily cleared away . 
Of course a certain amount of equipment is necessary , and this brings us straightway to the question of what it costs to start woodwork . 
Most households have a few basic tools — probably a hammer , pincers , screwdriver , etc. , but one does not get far with these . 
We have , therefore , considered the matter partly from what is essential or desirable to start woodwork , but taking into account the long-term likelihood of ( a ) better class work being done , and ( b ) the possibility of power being used to supplement hand tools . 
This last point is certainly important because almost everyone has come to recognise that machines are not only an economic necessity , but that a great deal of drudgery can be avoided by the installation of a power tool . 
As an elementary example , surely no one can pretend to enjoy ripping out parts from hardwood . 
Most men would unhesitatingly use a machine if it were available . 
Choice of Tools 
Coming now to the actual tools and their cost , we begin with what we have called a bare minimum kit . 
Probably most men have some of the tools already . 
It will enable a man to make simple , straight-forward things , and in any case may be regarded as a good beginning to which other tools can be added as the need arises . 
The nature of the work will probably dictate the additions to be made , but as a guide we have given a fuller kit which increases the range of things that can be made enormously . 
As a still further development , we follow with a good basic kit , which includes the fuller kit ( which in its turn , of course , includes the bare minimum kit ) . 
With this the vast majority of jobs can be done , though for advanced cabinet work the necessity for certain special tools will become obvious . 
Lastly , we suggest certain power tools and machines , the choice of which will depend partly upon the space available in the workshop , the amount one is prepared to pay , and the type of work a man normally does . 
First , however , a word of advice generally . 
Do not buy so-called cheap tools or machines . 
They never are cheap in the long run . 
They may be inaccurate , the steel may be soft ( or possibly too hard ) so that the edge either crumbles or is brittle , or they may not be robust enough for the work they have to do . 
Most tools have to lead an intensive life , and faults in design or quality soon become apparent . 
It is far better to pay the fair price for a tool of good quality , and not handicap yourself from the start . 
To put it in a slightly different way , do not allow yourself to blame the tools when the job does not turn out quite right ! 
If this advice is true of hand tools , it is still more true of machines . 
The whole nature of a machine is that , properly set-up and used , it will do accurate work . 
If it fails to do this it is worse than useless , and may be dangerous . 
This is not meant to imply that only the best precision machines are of any use . 
Some of the less expensive types intended for home use are reliable , especially taking into account the limited use to which they are put . 
It is to be admitted , however , that a few drill attachments have been put on the market which are unsound in design and poor in quality , and should be avoided . 
A point that may occur to the reader is that the possible later purchase of a machine may render some of his hand tools redundant . 
This may be the case in one or two instances , but for the greater part it does not apply . 
For instance , rebating can be done on the circular saw , but it leaves a sawn finish , and to make the surface smooth it is necessary to follow with the rebate plane . 
The latter is thus still needed , although the bulk of the work is done on the saw . 
TOOL CABINET 
Many men with only limited accommodation have to do their woodwork on the kitchen table . 
Providing this is sound , some perfectly good work can be done on it , but the usual problems are those of the vice , the bench stop , and storage place for tools . 
The combined bench top and tool cupboard shown here has been specially designed and made for WOODWORKER readers who have this difficulty . 
When folded up flat as in Fig. 2 it can be stored away in a cupboard or outhouse , but when opened out on the table there is a roomy bench top of 4 ft. by 17 in. , and good accommodation for the tools . 
More Power To Your Elbow 
TIME saved is money saved , they say ; and when holes have to be bored an electric drill will certainly save one heck of a lot of time . 
But there is much more to it than just that , for in the past few years these compact power tools have been developed to a stage where they can tackle almost any job you care to name . 
Grinding , paint mixing , precision turning or polishing floors — it 's a fair bet that there 's a drill accessory designed for the purpose . 
Nowhere is a power drill more useful than in the garage , where it can form the basis of a comprehensive workshop and so provide near professional facilities for maintenance and repair work . 
But however ingenious an attachment may be , it can only be as good as its power unit . 
So , before whaling in to your bank account , have a good look around , comparing specifications and prices and ensuring that the drill you fancy will drive the attachments in which you may be interested . 
All the popular makes of drill , produced to exacting standards , offer a high degree of reliability and an efficient after-sales service . 
On what , then , does choice depend ? 
Well , on weight , for one thing ; or on style . 
One maker discovered that eye-appeal increased his sales and so you might fall for a charming pastel shade ! 
Then , too , there are practical features to be considered , such as an automatic cut-out , or double insulation which does away with the need for earthing . 
The price ? 
Anything from about £7 upwards for the drill itself — and , unless you hold yourself in check , up to ten times that amount for accessories ! 
But many of the manufacturers have taken the sting out of the cash side by operating their own hire-purchase schemes . 
A buyers ' guide to drills suitable for the do-it-yourself enthusiast is appended , and somewhere in that list is a power tool to meet your needs . 
But when buying , check that the operating voltage ( marked on a plate on the drill body ) is suited to your mains supply . 
It is also a good idea to spin the chuck by hand , to ensure that the spindle is free-running and has survived the trip from factory to dealer without damage . 
You will want to try it out as soon as you arrive home , but curb your impatience for a while . 
Check , first , that the plug is properly connected . 
If the green-covered cable runs to the earth pin , red to the pin marked " L " and black to the pin marked " N , " then everything is as it should be . 
Once you have bought your drill , then it is only common sense to look after it properly , and simple maintenance will keep it in good order almost indefinitely . 
Say the power-drill makers , 75 per cent of major breakdowns can be traced to neglect of the carbon-brush gear . 
So it pays to carry out regular inspection of the brushes , replacing them , in the grade and size recommended by the maker , when they have worn to a third of their original length . 
As with motor-cycle dynamo brushes , care should be taken to see that they bed down properly on the commutator , with the spring pressure sufficient to keep the brushes in close contact . 
Ventilation holes in the drill body must be kept free from dust , screws should be checked for tightness regularly , and — an obvious point , maybe — cable leads must be inspected from time to time for signs of fraying or of faulty connections . 
Go steady on greasing and work strictly to the instruction book , for too much grease can bring a train of trouble . 
It could cause the motor to overheat . 
Overgreasing the rear bearing could foul the commutator . 
And if there is too much in the gear box a stream of surplus might be blown into your face ! 
If your garage is damp , play safe and keep the drill in the house when not in use , for damp is one of the worst enemies of an electric motor . 
And when storing the drill , coil the cable neatly without kinks or sharp bends . 
When removing the chuck or setting up the tool for a specific job , always follow the maker 's recommendation . 
Never push a screwdriver or other tool into the body of the drill in order to jam the shaft . 
You ca n't see what damage you may be causing , nor will it show until the current is switched on . 
And should the drill give trouble send it back to the manufacturer 's service depot , for do-it-yourself repairs are ticklish unless you are a skilled electrician . 
Factories place great emphasis on accident prevention , and it is equally important that safety habits should be developed in the home workshop . 
Wear overalls , for a start , so that there is no loose clothing to be caught up in moving parts ( ties and shirt-sleeves , for example , are particularly vulnerable ) . 
And it is as well to wear goggles — your motor-cycle goggles will serve admirably — when pieces of metal are likely to be flying about . 
Petrol , or any other inflammable liquid , should be removed from the working area , for a spark from a grinding or sanding wheel can start a fire . 
A good tip is to disconnect the tool when setting up an accessory , or making any other change . 
Also , if your drill has a locking button incorporated in the switch , it must be released . 
Incidentally , if the drill cable is plugged into a switched socket , in case of emergency the simplest thing is to flick off the switch ; if something has gone wrong with the drill you wo n't want to fumble around trying to release the locking button ! 
Finally , never , never pull a drill around by its power lead . 
It is so easy to pull a connection loose — and you wo n't find out about it until you pick up the drill and try to switch on . 
Having bought your drill , how do you set about using it ? 
And which of those alluring attachments are most useful for the motor-cyclist 's workshop ? 
Well , we 'll go into the practical side of things next week . 
NOT SUCH A BORING JOB ... ! 
FROM the display of attachments in a hardware shop window , you might well conclude that there is no longer such a tool as an electric drill , pure and simple ; instead , it has become a miniature machine-shop powerhouse . 
But for all that , the primary function of a power drill is — well , to drill ; and with its aid anyone can bore holes quickly and easily . 
But there are holes and holes , and to make a proper job of things , while at the same time prolonging the life of the drill bit , it is worth while taking a little trouble . 
So , for a start , we can ignore those cheap ( and usually foreign ) sets of twist drills on the chain-store tool counters . 
Almost certainly they are of carbon steel — good enough for a hand brace , maybe , but you would be lucky to use them more than once in a power tool . 
No , what you need are high-speed-steel drills , more expensive in first cost but cheaper in the long run ; these can tackle most jobbing work , but you will want yet another type of drill if there is glass , concrete or masonry to be drilled . 
A good high-speed drill will have the letters HS and the diameter stamped on the shank . 
But should there be no marking and you are in doubt , there is a simple way of identifying the material . 
Touch the drill shank lightly against a grinding wheel and note the colour of the sparks . 
If red , then it is high-speed steel ; if yellow , carbon steel . 
Now for the actual operation — and that should always begin by using a centre-punch to mark the job at the precise spot to be drilled . 
That acts as a guide for the drill point and stops it wandering from the required position . 
A comfortable working stance is essential , both to lessen physical strain and to achieve accuracy . 
That 's where a bench drilling assembly scores heavily , a simple pillar fixture which converts the power tool into a bench drill . 
Fixed to such a stand , the drill can be brought to the job with great precision , while pressure is increased easily by using the spring-loaded lever provided with the assembly . 
In addition , the stand baseplate offers a firm and smooth working surface . 
In some of the drill accessories available the bench stand also forms part of a lathe assembly , but Black and Decker market a self-contained bench conversion at £4 . 
When using a bench stand , it is advisable to interpose a block of wood between the baseplate and the job , so that when the drill point breaks through it enters the wood and not the plate . 
But whether the power drill is hand-held or used in a bench assembly , let your eyes and ears act as trouble detectors . 
Listen to the drill 's high-pitched whine , which will drop a tone or two as it bites into the job ; but should the note turn to a low growl too much pressure is being applied — so ease up a little , to obviate overloading and , possibly , burning out the motor . 
Watch the swarf as it spins away from the drill flutes . 
With mild steel and other softish metals splinters and dust are a sign that more pressure is required , so increase it until good , fat shavings are twirling out from the job . 
They may be coming from one flute only , and if so the drill has been incorrectly ground . 
The drill point and cutting edges have also a tale to tell . 
If the point has blunted , then the pressure has been too great . 
If the outer corners of the cutting edges are wearing , or turning blue , the drill speed is too high . 
Regrinding and setting a drill is really a job for an expert and beginners are advised to take them to a light engineering shop for the proper treatment . 
Speed is an important factor in the life of a twist drill . 
The average domestic power tool operates at around 2,750 r.p.m. , which although right for powering many of the attachments is a little too fast for drilling some materials . 
Used at the right speed , drills will have a longer life and not require frequent regrinding . 
The basic rule is this : the harder the material and the larger the drill diameter , the slower should the speed be . 
Though the simpler tools have no inbuilt method of changing speed , attachments are available which can step-up or reduce drilling speed to bring it into line with your needs . 
One , from Bridges at £2 4s 10d , gives a four-to-one speed reduction at the turn of a knob . 
Another , by Black and Decker at £3 7s 6d , will not only double or halve the standard speed at will , but will also carry the drive at right angles for reaching awkward spots . 
As an instance , when a 1/4in drill is used on cast iron , spindle speed should be about 750 r.p.m. , and on brass , 3,100 r.p.m . 
Makers of twist drills often issue tables of suitable speeds for various materials ; Intal ( Watery Street , Sheffield , 3 ) will supply a handy little booklet on the subject on request . 
Where a drill speed may be quoted in peripheral feet per minute , do n't be alarmed . 
A simple formula **f will give you spindle r.p.m . 
Drill longevity and lubrication go together . 
Some materials — wood , cast iron , brass and Bakelite among them — are drilled " dry , " but for most purposes a good all-round lubricant is soluble oil . 
One tip is to keep a supply in a polythene bottle with a small hole in the cap , and squirt it on to the drill as the job proceeds . 
In unskilled hands drills are easily broken . 
So for the inexperienced , stub drills — shorter than average and less likely to bend or break — are a good buy ( but be sure that they are long enough for the job you want to do ) . 
Jamming is a common cause of drill breakage , and that is most often the case when a drill is breaking through at the far side of the work . 
Instructions for making CHILD 'S HIGH CHAIR 
HERE is a project that will be welcomed by the family man or father-to-be . 
Unlike many commercial articles , this chair is solidly built and capable of withstanding the heavy handling of the most destructive youngster . 
Almost any available timber can be used but Parana pine is recommended , being cheap , easy to work , and taking a good finish . 
Start by making the two side frames from 1 in. by 1 1/4 in. planed timber as shown in Fig. 1 . 
Although the timber will have already been machine planed , remember to go over each piece with a smoothing plane , otherwise the marks left by the cutters will show up after painting . 
The dimensions given enable the feeding tray to slide over a 30 in. table , but the height can be altered if required . 
All the joints are simple halving joints glued and pinned , which should nevertheless be cut with care to ensure a neat appearance . 
The side frames are joined by four cross pieces each 1 1/4 in. by 1/2 in. by 14 in. which fit into the recesses ( C ) , cut to fit them . 
See Fig. 2 . 
These are then glued and pinned into place . 
A similar piece of 1 in. by 1 1/4 in. by 14 in. timber is fixed across the end of the feeding tray as seen in Fig. 3 which also shows how a piece of hardboard is covered with plastic material for easy cleaning and then fixed underneath the frame with panel pins to complete the feeding tray . 
Cut this piece of hardboard so that it fits up against the front legs of the chair . 
The seat rests across the upper two cross pieces and is made of 1/2 in. plywood glued and panel pinned in position , measurements being taken directly from the work . 
Fig. 4 shows the framework for the back which is made from 1 1/4 in. by 1/2 in. timber . 
The amount of the backward tilt and also the height is left to personal choice and the width is best taken directly from the work to ensure a good fit . 
Fix the piece A to the sides first with glue and panel pins and then fit the frame together with the piece B temporarily in place on the chair frame . 
Decide on the required angle of slope , keeping B flat on the chair seat , and mark off the exact position of B on the side pieces . 
These can then be cut at the correct angle and B is glued and nailed in place . 
A piece of hardboard is then cut and pinned to the frame and its edges planed off flush . 
Finally attach the back firmly to the sides with screws driven from the inside . 
The footrest is a piece of timber 14 in. long and about 1/2 in. by 4 in. attached to the front legs with a pair of angle irons as shown in Fig. 5 . 
When determining the position of the footrest , do not place too near the seat to allow for the growth of baby 's legs . 
To complete the job , screw two fittings to the inside of the chair arms about 2 1/2 in. from the back to hold the baby 's safety harness . 
These can be made by shaping and soldering two pieces of stout wire as shown in Fig. 6 . 
Make sure that these are well secured as they will have to withstand considerable pulling as the child becomes older . 
Finishing touches 
Punch in all nail and panel pin heads and fill the holes with plastic wood . 
Then thoroughly glasspaper the whole framework and round off any sharp edges ( such as the edge of the seat , feeding tray , etc ) . 
Fill the grain with a woodfiller in the usual way and paint the frame in a suitable pastel shade , using a contrasting colour for the seat and the back which can be decorated with a suitable nursery transfer . 
Avoid using lead-based paint as this could prove poisonous if junior decides to bite the chair . 
Finally , it is as well to cover the footrest with rubber or any such protective material that might be available as otherwise the paint would soon be scratched off . 
( J.H.P. ) BUILD AN 8FT . 
PRAM DINGHY By F. Cordner 
BUILDING your own boat is a most satisfying and worthwhile project . 
Here are the plans of a very seaworthy little rowing dinghy many of which I have built and sold . 
It is especially designed for simplicity in construction , cheapness and lightness of weight , and measures approximately 8 ft. by 4 ft . 
She weighs only 60 lb. but can carry three people and an outboard motor with a comfortable margin of freeboard . 
I have built many of these little craft in this country and particularly in Canada for use by commercial salmon fishermen in Victoria B.C. Over there the cost is about $17.00 . 
The last one I made here cost about £6 0s. 0d . 
Prices of course depend on local availability of materials and , there are many ways in which costs can be saved . 
For instance , in Canada we use galvanised nails in place of screws . 
We just bend them over and clamp firmly by using a hammer on each side . 
Over here I 've always used brass screws , which are more expensive . 
The first job is to make your moulds . 
In Fig. 1 it quotes 3/4 in. five-ply , but to save money any scrap may be used , and if this is nailed and glued together strongly , it may be marked and cut to shape later . 
If you do not have a wooden floor on which to anchor the moulds , make a frame of rough lumber as shown in Fig. 2 . 
The main idea is to have the moulds standing as rigid as possible , for it is on these you will be building and shaping your little craft , upside-down . 
For cheapness I recommend using Douglas Fir Plywood from British Columbia . 
This is hot pressed and resin bonded to ensure a permanently water proof glue line . 
Be sure to see that the edge bears the mark , P.M.B.C. Exterior . 
This may be bought at any good timber merchants . 
The transoms can be made of any sound five-ply wood of the same make , or oak or mahogany . 
For the last one I made , I used the two flaps from an old mahogany table which I bought at a sale for one shilling . 
I have also included a sketch of paddles I make for rowing this dinghy ( Fig. 3 ) . 
They are very simple , cheap and easy to make . 
As will be seen from the plan there is only a single gunwale on the outside . 
I find that the type of rowlock we use in Canada is difficult to obtain here and expensive . 
I overcome this in another way as shown in Fig. 4 . 
By putting in the extra gunwale on the inside , it improves the appearance and strengthens the boat and makes it possible to fit blocks for the rowlocks . 
Note that all contacting surfaces must be glued together with waterproof resin glue ( I use Casco ) as well as being screwed together . 
Build the pram upside-down . 
Since it has no transverse frames , moulds are required at stations 2 and 6 , to serve in conjunction with the two transoms to maintain the shape of the sides and bottom until they are fastened together into a strong rigid unit . 
Cut the moulds and the transoms to shape as in the detailed drawings . 
If you have a wooden floor you can use " A " frames fastened to the floor if not , use a strong horizontal frame that will sit firmly on the ground or concrete floor . 
I use a heavy old base as in Fig. 2 . 
The edges of the transoms should be bevelled to correspond to the sides and bottom of the boat . 
Do n't forget to cut out on each side of each mould to allow for the chines to rest in these notches , as they are not fastened to the moulds , which will only be used whilst the hull is under construction . 
The chine is the long stringer on each side which is joined to both transoms and lies in the grooves cut in the moulds . 
Each chine is made of oak , ash , spruce or any long grained flexible wood . 
I prefer spruce when available . 
As will be seen in the plan , the transoms have a frame 1 in. by 1 in. on each side . 
The chines are morticed into this and butt up against the transom . 
Start at the bow and spring them both at the same time over the slots cut in the moulds and into the notches cut for this purpose in the stern or after transom framing . 
Glue , screw and make fast . 
The skeleton of the boat will now take shape , and this is the time to check before making fast to see that nothing is distorted . 
Ensure that the outside measurements from transom to transom are equal on each side and that the transoms are parallel horizontally . 
Next bevel the chines with a plane so that the bottom will fit snugly . 
Cut out the bottom and sides accurately from the plan measurements but leave sufficient margin for planing after fixing to the boat . 
Use your two lengths of 8 ft. by 4 ft. ply for this purpose , the sides from one , and the bottom from the other . 
If care is taken not to waste the ply , plenty of material is left over for the thwarts . 
Having trimmed up the chines , we are now ready to plank the sides . 
Start again at the bows , clamping into position with a "D " clamp . 
Bend round the frame to the stern and clamp there . 
If you have a third clamp use it in the centre as well . 
After generously covering with glue , screw the sides to the transom framing and the chine . 
Use 5/8 by No. 4 gauge screws ( brass ) or nail with inch and a quarter galvanized nails , if you are doing it that way . 
Use flat head screws about 4 in. apart and do not counter-sink in the 1/4 in. ply . 
Make a very small hole for the screw to allow for a good grip . 
Remember to glue before screwing . 
Clean up with the plane ready for the bottom , which is cut in one piece . 
It should overlap just a trifle ; this can be cleaned up later . 
As you are screwing and gluing this piece to the chines it is necessary to be careful not to miss the chine with the screws . 
I prefer spacing screws 3 in. apart for the bottom , both for screwing to the chines and the bottom shaped transom facing . 
Again , do n't forget to glue . 
Now put on the keel and the rubbing strakes and you are ready to lift the boat off the moulds . 
You wo n't want them again for this boat , so shift them right out of the way . 
Place the boat right side up on two boxes or trestles of convenient height for working . 
Fix on the gunwales and insert the thwarts ( seats ) taking care to reinforce the sides of the dinghy at the seats with vertical members as shown in the plans . 
Make the four blocks for the rowlocks and mark their positions before riveting on the gunwales so that you do not put a rivet where you will have to cut out the inside ( gunwale ) one to fit the block . 
I rivet my gunwales together through the side of the hull with copper nails and roves . 
It greatly improves the appearance and the strength . 
Paint with good marine primer , undercoat and at least one coat of finishing paint . 
USE FABRICS TO MAKE PICTURES By Anne Bradford 
WHEN an assortment of differently coloured materials are cut into a variety of shapes they can be combined by either making fabric pictures or designs . 
While these may ultimately be made into a picture for framing and hanging on a wall , they may also be arranged into a design , and the resulting panel utilized for decorating a useful article . 
News of the new furniture 
A wind of change has blown through the cobwebs in the drawing-offices of Britain 's furniture makers , and affected them as deeply as it has our politicos . 
An optimist might even persuade himself that there are signs of the birth of a new and fine " English Modern style " . 
Our shame in the past has been that the talent that undoubtedly existed was not used . 
In despair , some of our younger people , fresh from the best design schools in the world , drifted off to Scandinavian and other countries where they felt their ideas and ideals were more appreciated , or worse , drifted into other work where their years of training and experience were lost for ever . 
In the post-war years , furniture of all sorts — beautiful and trashy — has been pouring into this country from abroad . 
Britain has become almost the world 's clearing-house . 
When we were in Denmark recently , two furniture-makers told us that Britain took two-thirds of all the furniture they exported . 
When this furniture was good , it was so much better than anything we have been producing , that it made an immediate mark and proved a vast economic success . 
Now there are very real signs that our own manufacturers have taken note of the profits and , rather like the United States car manufacturers with their " compact " cars , are hitting back at these foreign influences . 
Our home market now has the extra cash and extra influences from magazines and the daily press to make them more discriminating . 
Manufacturers who , a few years ago , were happy to produce one model that then sold successfully for years , are now willingly employing designers wishful to introduce new ideas . 
The new design policy is being vigorously adopted by some manufacturers , only half believingly by others , and then for only part of their range . 
But the signs are good . 
The Council of Industrial Design , of course , must get much of the credit for this awakening of public interest in design , for they show things by native manufacturers only . 
This credit must also be shared with a few brave manufacturers who have been making very soundly designed furniture ( and with their own money ) for years . 
Now , at last , more and more manufacturers are recognizing there is not only a certain cachet in the little black-and-white Design Centre label , but that would-be buyers do look for this signal . 
Every day , for six days a week , over three thousand people visit the Design Centre in the Haymarket , to see what Britain can make ; which goes to prove what critics have said over and over again — if people demand the best , eventually they will get it . 
What 's new ? 
Exciting and unusual materials and combinations of materials are the keynote of the 1961 furniture collections . 
Robin Day has designed for Hille something we have long awaited and only been able to get from French sources , a truly super-elegant dinner-wagon or tea-trolley , happily marrying blackened steel , mahogany and stainless steel , with trays in white plastic . 
This piece is a rich and rare combination of visual and tactile delights . 
Aidron Duckworth , another of our top-line designers , shows new metallic possibilities in his new designs for the Holborn Metal Works . 
This is mainly contract work , and the new and luxurious Londoner Hotel has ordered his armchair , HCI , for its guests . 
We hope they can evolve a less asceptic-sounding title for their chair before long . 
Nigel Walters , Head of the Furniture Design School of the Central School of Arts and Crafts , has also produced a dining-chair of great simplicity and beauty for the " Braemar " range , by Wrighton . 
Four young students of the Central School , with the blessing of their tutor , have formed themselves into a group called " Design Associates " . 
Their grounding in design has been sound . 
Now they hope to offer us a comprehensive industrial , furniture and interior design service . 
They claim that traditional or derivative influences will be avoided in their work , and insist that design in this country should be far more adventurous than it is at present . 
Fighting words . 
We shall see . 
Certainly we side with them wholeheartedly against the wholesale lifting of design that has been such a source of embarrassment for years . 
But we suggest that they should not wholly discount our design heritage , for there is much there for those who are bright enough to learn — as the Danes have shown with their borrowings from our own eighteenth-century tradition . 
We show some of the work of our design schools on page 73 . 
" Danad Design " is the name of another group of artists , designers and architects who have banded together to brave the apathy of some stores ' buyers — the omni-present barrier between the enlightened manufacturer and the public . 
These rebels have a firm belief in the possibilities of decorative plastic laminates in furniture design . 
The originality of the graphic designs they incorporate is likely to make its main appeal to a sophisticated and thus restricted market . 
We shall see . 
The techniques they use are much the same as those used by Fornasetti and Philip Pound , but the designs are supremely original and a good deal bolder . 
Interest has been shown in " Danad " furniture by the stores in which one expects to see exciting and experimental work . 
Examples should be in the stores this month . 
SHOPPING 
Figgio flameware from Norway was our choice when we paid a visit to R Pochin at 32 Granby St , Leicester . 
Designed for use on either gas or electric stoves , these dishes can be transferred straight from the oven to the table . 
They come in gay colours on a white ground and there are many shapes and sizes to choose from . 
The small dish with a handle in our photograph costs 9s 3d ; the casserole with lid is 35s 6d and the oblong dish 22s 7d . 
This is an excellent hardware store where you can buy anything from the most mundane of kitchen gadgets to a luxury bathroom fitting . 
Fireplaces are a speciality and you will find an endless selection in stone , tile or slate . 
White painted finish and an interesting shape attracted us to this Swedish " Arka " chair imported by Finmar and on display at Harris 's of Granby Corner , Leicester . 
You can also buy it in beechwood , and both models come with or without a fitted cushion . 
The price is £8 5s for the chair , and the cushion is extra . 
We pictured it ideally in a child 's room because it is fairly low ( approx 12 in high from seat to floor ) . 
If you have any furnishing problems , some at least of the answers will be found at this furnishing store which stocks much top bracket furniture , fabrics and carpets . 
Stainless steel from Sweden and the English Lake District : this is what we found at Pearce 's , jewellers of 7 Market Pl , Leicester . 
The coffee-jug , designed by Gense of Sweden , costs £8 3s 6d and the three-legged dish , hand-beaten by the Keswick School of Art , is 59s 6d . 
Lanterns outside the front door , we are told , are fast increasing in popularity . 
This we confirmed whilst visiting Jack English at his shop in London Rd , Leicester . 
He told us that people seem to think nothing of spending £6 to light the way to their doorsteps , but will hesitate at spending the same amount for indoor lighting . 
The favourite shape is undoubtedly a variation on the old wrought iron pattern . 
It is guaranteed to be rust- and weather-proof and sells at £6 5s . 
Bohemian crystal chandeliers , magnificent and resplendent , to grace alike the baronial hall or " semi-det " , are hung in a superb exhibition at Morgan Squires in Market St , Leicester . 
Crown Theresian chandeliers are known throughout the world — Maria Theresia , Empress of Austria and the mother of Marie Antoinette , decorated her palace with their like and this is how the name originated . 
They are made in Czechoslovakia and distributed in this country by Homeshades of Baker St , London W 1 , and prices range from as little as £6 for a small baguette to £600 for a 48-light chandelier , 6 feet high . 
Against this glittering background , Morgan Squires have put pieces from the " Limelight " range of crystal , one of which we chose . 
This crystal is also produced in Czechoslovakia and comes in various shapes and sizes . 
The one illustrated is in amber and green and costs 70s . 
Quality and craftsmanship are the pace-setters that have kept The Dryad Handicrafts and Cane Furnishing Company of 42 Nicholas St , Leicester , leading their field . 
Every handicraft , at home or school , is catered for , both in the supply of materials and books and leaflets , published by their own press . 
On glancing through their catalogue we noticed such items as willow work , marbling and musical pipe-making . 
If you want to try your hand at the spinning wheel , you can buy one here for £13 18s 6d together with the various bobbins , spindles and carders that go with it . 
Natural fleece from the Cheviots and South Downs , with sufficient of the natural grease retained to make it particularly suitable for hand-spinning , can also be bought at 11s 9d a pound . 
One of the latest designs to come from their on-the-spot workrooms , is this mobile wine trolley complete with glass top and ball-bearing casters . 
The price is £9 13s 9d . 
AROUND THE HOUSE Fruit-peeling knife 
Another addition to the " Prestige " " Sky-Line " range of kitchen knives is a superbly sharp , hollow-ground knife for paring and slicing fruits . 
In fact , this small blade is three useful knives in one , for the tip is serrated and in the wide part of the blade is a sharpened gouger which will cut out a narrow sliver of peel to use in drinks or for decorating special dishes — or , indeed , dishes which can be made special by the addition of some decoration . 
6s 11d from all good stores . 
Bath radiator 
In an age of small houses and flats and miniscule bathrooms , if you have central heating and are sensitive to even the slightest chill in the one room where clothes do n't protect you , the problem often arises — where to put the radiator and how to get a maximum of heating , using a minimum of space . 
The Hurseal "Ripplerad " can now be fitted flush against the side of the bath itself , giving a fine sweep of radiator . 
We ca n't help feeling , too , that this is going to be a wonderful way to take that shocking chill off the porcelain enamel . 
The cost of " Ripplerad " to fit an average bath would be about £5 exclusive of fitting charges . 
Enquiries to Hurseal , 219 Regent St , W 1 , or your nearest builders ' merchant . 
A draught-free existence 
March winds — the cause of those fearful cold draughts that quickly lower the temperature in even the most efficiently heated room — are firmly kept out with the new " Seel-a-door " flexible plastic strip , that you can easily fix to the lower edge of the offending door yourself . 
The strip has a felt backing for double insulation and to protect carpets . 
Fixing is simple . 
Trim the 39-in strip to size with a pair of strong scissors , and then carefully peel off the protective paper backing which covers a strong adhesive . 
Press into place . 
6s 6d from good department stores and ironmongers . 
Sealdraught Ltd also make a narrow self-adhesive plastic foam strip to seal windows and the sides of doors . 
Swedish salad servers 
Boots 's , once known only as dispensing chemists , have been branching out recently into other fields — books , records , jewellery and many other things can be bought at the larger branches , all of the high quality we have learned to expect from Boots 's pharmaceutical departments . 
This handsome pair of salad servers from Sweden is typical of the good buying at Boots 's branches now , and costs only 5s 11d the pair . 
Modular , do-it-yourself garages 
In architectural circles there 's an old adage : a doctor can bury his patients , but an architect can only advise them to grow ivy . 
Many of the garages to be had might well prompt a philanthropist of the anti-ugly school to spend a lifetime and a fortune distributing free , evergreen climbing plants . 
This could hardly happen without the herring having some orientation with the sea bottom . 
It means that the crowding is caused during the daytime , and that the herring must continue to migrate over the ground as well as in midwater and during the swim ( the swim at East Anglia is always from the north ) . 
Thus we can see that herring movements , although primarily instinctive perhaps , and certainly helped and hindered by water flow , are also closely related to the sea-bed geography . 
Geography , too , names the great fisheries that depend on them : the Fladen Ground ( where again most big shots are taken on the edges ) , the Gut , a deep-water channel to the Dogger where the herring spawn along the northern edge ; a good contour map will almost define the migrations of these summer herring . 
The effect of bottom congestion due to the light pressure is inevitably mixed with that of the suitability of ground for spawning . 
Both result in crowding , so there is no need to try to separate them — thank Heaven ! 
A good picture of this is seen on the 150 miles of spawning grounds from the Viking in the north down to the Klondykes and the Reef along the western edge of the Norwegian Deep . 
In this 200-fathom trench the herring do not touch the bottom . 
Their descent stops at the end of the light pressure . 
But they migrate easterly to the Norwegian side , or westerly , until in the shallower water the mile wide layers disappear from the echo-sounders . 
Bottom crowding comes when they can not reach their optimum depth ; and this coincides with the suitable gravelly soil of these many roughs where the spring-spawning herring are always found . 
The joint evidence of echo-sounders and fishing gear leads to an overall though somewhat dim picture . 
The details are harder still to see . 
Drift Effects . 
At East Anglia , for instance , shoals that gather at the Knoll or other banks are most of them going to travel a hundred miles farther south before they spawn . 
Some will spawn at the Hinder banks , which are half-way ; and it may be that in their southerly march the herring will spawn wherever the suitable gravelly bottom soil coincides with their final ripeness . 
So the arrival of any particular shoal fish at a certain spawning ground may be accidental . 
Yet there will always be some that find it if enough are travelling , just as the robin who gets back exactly may be only one among thousands who do not . 
But this southerly migration is not accidental . 
Being contranatant or against the drift , it probably has a survival value in ensuring that the fry after hatching are drifted back into the normal home of the adults , by the water flow through the English Channel into the North Sea . 
Drift in another form probably explains how these migrating herring are biased to east or west by the different winds . 
Strong westerlies are well known to bring good longshore fishings . 
The surface water that is blown offshore must be replaced by an underflow bringing with it the herring to the Norfolk and Suffolk beaches . 
Easterly winds , on the other hand , mean no herring along the shore , as recent years have shown . 
A succession of winds is needed for this effect of course — one breeze will not do it , though a very hard westerly will often start off the " local " herring ; but quite apart from this wind effect there is an easterly drift special to this rump of coastline , caused by the meeting of water from north and south . 
Herring fishermen call this " the outset " . 
It is strongest at spring tides , when without wind you will " set " out — or drift to the eastward , the length of half a fleet of nets — almost a mile on every tide at the Smith 's Knoll . 
Without an explanation of how it works , it may well be that this outset , akin to the mouth of a great salmon river , has been the biggest factor through the ages in the constancy of this great herring fishery . 
The East Anglian behaviour ( see p. 82 ) has always differed from that of the summer fisheries . 
There is the "swim " at slack waters , even in daylight sometimes ; and the high swimming , when fish are caught only in the top few yards of netting . 
These and other fascinating behaviour mysteries are peculiar to this fishery , which unfortunately seems to be dying out ; but a full discussion of them is beyond the present scope . 
2 . 
REACTION TO FISHING GEAR 
The Bow-wave Theory . 
This assumes that all fishing gear , when moving , sends before it a kind of scaring effect , probably through waves or vibrations in the water or along the ground . 
Underwater films suggest that the footrope of a trawl does this . 
Films have also shown plaice moving before a seine net in just the same way after being gathered inwards by the ropes . 
( Just how the seine ropes do this is not yet proved ; it may be by actual contact , or by sight reaction to the disturbed sand ; or even in the case of flat fish , by vibrations through or along the bottom . ) 
But given such a bow wave of disturbance , it is obvious that without something to overcome its effect , very few fish would be caught . 
Let us consider first what would appear to be the simplest case — that of flat fish on the bottom . 
The evidence suggest that the fish are aware of the moving footrope before it reaches them . 
They move away before it , swimming at the same speed for an unknown period of time , until they become ( 1 ) tired , or ( 2 ) more used to the disturbance . 
Then they stop swimming and are caught . 
In the seine-net film this usually seemed to happen just after the fish had risen above the footrope , and presumably out of its field of disturbance , or bow wave . 
This suggests that the wave might be transmitted by the sea-bed , though the footrope in this case was actually just off the bottom and was indeed passing over some fish . 
It is natural to assume that flat fish being in actual contact with the bottom would react and be aware of the approach of anything like a footrope . 
And only the continuous progress of the net ensures that the fish are captured . 
Recent research on the swimming speeds of fish shows that they soon get tired , hence the success of the trawl . 
The lifting reaction is interesting since it seems in a way to be the last resource . 
The flat fish does not want to rise . 
Its instinct is to hide on the bottom . 
When disturbed , most flat fish will swim rapidly away for a short distance and then ground again , turning to face the disturbance and flirting up the sand or mud as they do so . 
Before a trawl they have not time for this ; and the flight becomes a steady swim ahead of the wave until lifting is the only thing left to do . 
This behaviour will probably be corroborated by future films . 
If so , it will be a remarkable vindication of the basic trawl design , for the earliest beam trawls had what we call cover — that is the headline running ahead of the ground rope . 
Actually the seine net has little or no cover . 
And in this film the rise of the fish was small , a matter of a foot or two . 
With round fish like haddock , which would hardly find safety on the bottom , this cover would seem to be even more essential ; but more films are needed to prove this . 
Cover in the fast-moving trawl is considered essential to catch round fish whose reaction to disturbance would be upwards . 
In seine nets it might be less important . 
The fish before the net have been gathered more slowly : the reaction of bottom feeding haddocks while being chevied inwards by the slowly closing arms of rope would be to swim away from the disturbance and then downwards again to resume feeding . 
If they swam upwards for any distance they would get above the disturbance and escape . 
It may well be that the efficiency of seineing on haddocks depends a lot on what the fish happen to be doing . 
When working the Cleaver Bank years ago we used to get good hauls , 12 to 15 baskets at opening and close of day , and nothing , except a basket or two of whiting , during the high day . 
This might be explained by a change in behaviour of the fish ; or even indirectly of the feed animals on the bottom . 
The point is , however , that once round fish are persuaded into the path of the seine net they would probably be less disturbed than they would be by the faster-moving trawl . 
Whether or not they would be moving slowly before the seine net like the flats , we do not know . 
But the fact that they are caught proves that they do not lift above the headline . 
It may be that some of them do , though . 
And this would explain why the Vinge trawls are now being found more efficient than seine nets when used with seine ropes . 
On this subject of cover , my father could remember 40 baskets of haddock in beam trawl hauls at Smith 's Knoll . 
This suggests that cover might be more important than speed . 
But we should realise that a smack with a strong wind and tide could move a trawl fast over the ground . 
If we take note of the action and results of seineing gear , it becomes fairly obvious that the creeping ropes can have very little bow-wave effect . 
If they moved fast enough to produce a continuous swim the fish would eventually lift and be lost ; but the slow heaving taught us by the Danes , like the dogs careful driving of the sheep , drives the flat fish without scaring them . 
As it seems to be the rule to heave fast , as well as to tow , for round fish we may expect the cameras to show a different reaction on the part of these : being rather more active than flats one would expect them to avoid a slow-moving trawl more easily . 
The more we think about trawling and seineing the more we realise how different they are . 
The seine net can be likened to a dustpan , with brushes — the ropes — sweeping things into its path , and if the fish are swept too vigorously they will rise , like the dust , and be lost . 
The trawl , however , is more like the dustpan without a brush and has to move a bit faster . 
We can assume that the bow wave will become greater as the speed of the gear increases . 
In the case of herring trawling great emphasis is placed on the need for fast towing . 
The Germans , who are the recognised experts at this , have been using bigger and bigger ships towing at over 4 knots . 
Their main difficulty seems to be to get netting that will stand the weight of the great catches . 
But if there is anything in the Bow Wave theory there must be something more than just speed to consider . 
Herring are more lively than the white fish , which we have seen react to the bow wave of trawl footropes . 
And the herring can probably swim faster , for short periods anyway , than the trawl moves . 
If the herring react to the disturbance ahead of the trawl like other fish , then increased speed alone is not the answer . 
You can not catch a bow wave . 
I remember " seeing " the bow wave of herring from a trawl on the Fladen Ground over twenty years ago . 
Herring Trawling . 
One calm summer day in 1937 we lay waiting to shoot our drift nets . 
That morning the drifters had hauled good shots and gone to market , leaving us alone on the ground . 
Yet our systematic echo-sounding over the area had yielded no fish traces . 
At about midday an Aberdeen trawler came towing along , and passed us some hundred yards off . 
I pictured her trawl trundling over the bottom ; and I thought of the herring we could not find though knowing they were present . 
PRAYING MANTIS By B. G. FURNER A TRIAL IN KENT AS A FORM OF BIOLOGICAL PEST CONTROL 
WE have not yet reached the stage in Britain when 50 planes are engaged in spreading 1,500 tons of DDT and fuel oil over 3 million acres or when 20 million acres are sprayed with dieldrin . 
An eye-witness described one sprayed area as literally rank with the stench of small game and birds dead from insecticide poisoning . 
Wholesale chemical spraying , upsetting as it does the balance of nature by killing both pests and predators , is viewed with concern by a number of American State Research Stations . 
Not content with issuing bulletins on the dangers of the misuse of chemicals in agriculture , some stations are carrying out useful research on pest control by biological means . 
Both native and imported predatory insects and insect pathogens are used in field trial tests . 
The biological control of pests in the garden is not new to the American gardener . 
Ladybirds figure in press advertisements , their sale being by the gallon . 
Praying mantis ( { Mantis religiosa ) , both native and " immigrant " varieties , are used by gardeners in all parts of the United States . 
Advertisements offer eggs of European , Chinese or native forms of mantis . 
From the day it hatches in the spring until it dies in the late autumn , the praying mantis satisfies its voracity by eating other insects . 
Nine blowflies may be consumed at one sitting and the fully adult , 2 1/2-in. -long insect , is able to keep a firm hold on one grasshopper while eating another . 
According to Dr. Max Beier in " Fangheuschrecken " ( { Die Neue Brehm Bu " ckerei , 1952 ) , the praying mantis is trecking northwards . 
The northward journey of the mediterranean mantis brought the insect to Frankfurt on Main by the middle of the 18th century . 
From Frankfurt this useful insect has spread eastwards to Brno in Czechoslovakia and westwards as far as Fontainebleau . 
In North America the northward drive has brought the mantis to Ontario . 
There is , therefore , the possibility that within 100 years the praying mantis may be a part of the Kentish fauna . 
With this in mind , I started my trials with praying mantis in Kent last spring . 
The 1960 summer was not suitable for the start of a trial with mantis , but I did not know that when I tied the egg-cases to my peach trees in early May . 
The young mantis started to hatch in batches until mid-June . 
Swathed in a tight membrane , from which all the baby mantis do not escape , the 1/2-in. -long insects look rather like a cross between an Egyptian mummy and a space pilot . 
After extricating itself from the membrane , the young mantis has to dry itself . 
It is at this stage that the helpless insect is in great danger — especially from ants . 
I found that neither sticky bands nor tanglefoot deterred Kentish ants . 
To study the mantis more closely , I transferred some from the peach trees to a Kilner jar . 
According to Dr. Max Beier and to American writers , young mantis feed on plant lice , but I found that my young mantis could not be tempted by aphis from elder , peach and fat hen . 
I was able to keep my mantis alive in the jar by introducing a daily supply of fruit flies . 
By July 12 , the growing mantis showed a decided preference for house-flies and blow-flies , but their appetite increased until the few flies I was able to catch were quite insufficient , so I had to release the mantis in the garden . 
I see from my records that the mantis in the jar at no time showed any interest at all in young grasshoppers , moths or caterpillars — all of which are claimed to be a part of the mantis ' diet by American writers . 
Perhaps the mantis has to be at the adult stage before it will tackle these insects . 
After the first moult , the mantis were somewhat lighter in colour — a change from emerald green to leaf green . 
I need not remind readers of the cool , very wet weather of late July , August and September , 1960 . 
The weather conditions led me to feel quite certain that no praying mantis could possibly live through them . 
But on September 18 , to my very great surprise , I came across a praying mantis on a blackberry leaf . 
The colour had changed again — to that of the adult , a yellowish-brown . 
However , the mantis had not yet reached its full size , being only 1 1/4 in. in length and still wingless . 
The mantis was photographed and then released . 
Now the finding of one mantis is , in my opinion , a very hopeful sign . 
It is estimated that out of every 1,000 eggs laid , only six mantis survive until the autumn . 
I feel certain that if one of my mantis survived others also survived among the mass of grape-vines , blackberries and other fruits and vegetables on my 1/8 acre . 
But if the one mantis I found in the autumn were the only survivor , the survival ratio was high , at around 1 : 100 . 
My gravest error was in the choice of the species of praying mantis with which I started off my trials . 
The egg-cases , which my good friend , Mr. J. O. Moncrieff , export manager of the well-known American seed firm , W. Atlee Burpee and Co. , kindly sent me were of the Arizona species , { Stagmomantis limbata , Hahn , accustomed to dry summer temperatures reaching 120°F. in the shade . 
It is at present too early to report on my continued trials with this useful predator . 
A British zoologist and entomologist suggested that I try Spanish mantis this season . 
My colleague in Madrid , Dr. D. Fernando Quintana , had great difficulty in obtaining an egg-case , but one was finally secured through the kindness of Sr. D. Antonio Beni2tez Morera of Cadiz . 
The first batch of around 50 mantis hatched from this egg-case on June 20 . 
Meanwhile Mr. Moncrieff had sent me an egg-case of the Chinese mantis . 
The first mantis had hatched from the very large egg-case on June 6 . 
Both the Chinese and Spanish mantis , in the young stage at any rate , are light brown in colour . 
Because of the cool , wet weather , I had great difficulty in breeding fruit flies and , after many of the mantis of both types had died in my Kilner jars , I poured living mantis over vines and peachtrees . 
A Gardeners Chronicle reader living in Grantham , Lincs , kindly offered to cooperate with me in studying praying mantis as a pest control in the cold greenhouse . 
Of the dozen Spanish mantis sent him by post on June 22 , only two or three survived the journey ; one thrived and the latest report I have is that this mantis is still alive . 
Since June I have not seen a mantis in my garden and I would dearly like to know how J. Henri Fabre persuaded local children at Se2rignan to find his specimens . 
Local boys here in Kent , possibly distracted by my crop of grapes and blackberries , show no interest in searching for praying mantis to earn 5s. for each mantis found — dead or alive . 
A CHOICE OF POTS By JOHN T. WARREN , N.D.H. 
DESPITE the steady influx of substitutes since the end of the war , clay pots are still in greatest demand . 
It is mostly in the smaller sizes that the substitutes have made headway , and although numerous small clay pots are used each year , they are fewer than they were 10 years ago . 
In the larger sizes there is still no real substitute for clay that can be obtained at a comparable price , except the bituminized paper pots which are used on commercial nurseries for growing tomatoes and chrysanthemums . 
The main disadvantage of the clay pot is its brittle nature ; even with reasonably careful handling , the annual losses are often around 10 per cent. , and where the handling and storage facilities are not too good , these losses will be even greater . 
This does not necessarily apply to the larger sizes , as they are not quite so fragile as the smaller ones and are not normally thrown about in quite the same way . 
The storage problem puts clay pots at a definite disadvantage . 
They are fairly heavy and difficult things to accommodate and they must have some protection from severe weather , which can be quite a headache in a small garden . 
While admitting that broken pots have on occasions provided artists with delightful studies , there is no doubt that a pile of badly stacked , half-broken pots is an unlovely sight from any point of view . 
Every garden boy will agree that having to wash clay pots is a definite factor in favour of their abolition ; in fact one young man was so wholehearted about this a few years ago that he made the headlines for having smashed a large number to relieve his feelings . 
On the small-to-medium establishment , it is a disagreeable chore which nobody tackles with any enthusiasm , whereas on larger establishments the pots can be sterilized or washed by machine . 
It is not easy to make an economic comparison between clay pots and the various substitutes ; the former may last indefinitely with luck , while the latter are often expendable used only once . 
Clay pots are efficient and congenial containers in which to grow plants . 
In their proper setting they are not unattractive and , in spite of their shortcomings , most gardeners have a nostalgic affection for them . 
Present-day pots are better finished , do not get dirty so readily and are easier to wash . 
The deep rims make for neater and safer stacking , though they are still expensive and still get broken . 
On the other hand , there is really no replacement for the larger sizes , so they have the decided advantage of being the only suitable container available in quantity for fairly large plants . 
Soil blocks are probably the oldest alternative to clay pots for plant raising . 
These are compressed blocks of compost , made in a specially devised press to simulate roughly the shape and size of a pot . 
Usually cylindrical or hexagonal in shape , they are made of the same compost as would have been used in a pot , the only difference being that it is used in a slightly moister condition . 
Seed is sown , or seedlings are pricked out into them in the normal way , the only real difference being that more of the watering is done through a rose to avoid breaking the blocks with a spout of water . 
First-class plants of tomatoes , cucumbers , marrows , melons , cauliflowers , celery and onions , may all be raised in soil blocks ; so can such flowering plants as dahlias , chrysanthemums , salvias , sweet peas , lupins and numerous others . 
One big advantage of soil blocks is an obvious one : the cost of a pot of any description is saved completely . 
Manufacturing the block and planting it is very little more trouble than normal potting , and a superior plant , which transplants more easily , is produced . 
The obvious limitation is that soil blocks can only be used for propagating ; there can be no progression to a larger block when the plant or seedling is ready to be moved ; it must be planted out or potted . 
Many amateur gardeners might improve their results by buying a small hand-operated soil block maker and use the money saved on buying small pots to improve their composts . 
The various types of small paper pots are very useful for short-term operations , but are inclined to collapse if the plants are in them too long . 
They are quite useful for plants that are despatched to market or direct to customers , their cheapness making them attractive to the nurseryman ; there is also considerable saving in carriage costs because of their lightness . 
There are many types of plastic pots available ; some expensive , some quite cheap ; some good and others not so good . 
A wide range of plants grow quite well in plastic pots and usually need less water than those in clay pots . 
They are slightly more difficult to manage , however , until a little experience has been gained with them . 
Plastic pots are usually more expensive than clay ones , but they are almost indestructible and will last a long time with normal care . 
WHEN GREENHOUSE PLANTS GO TO REST S. Clapham 
DURING the winter the summer-flowering greenhouse perennials are of course at rest , but this does not mean that they need no attention at all . 
Many of them , in fact , can come to grief more readily at this time than in the summer , and with all of them a certain amount of care is necessary if they are to be not only alive in spring but in the best possible condition for re-starting into growth . 
Perhaps the ones which are most liable to be neglected are those which die down completely , such as gloxinias , achimenes and tuberous begonias . 
Those are often left in their pots and laid on their sides beneath the staging where they are very much " out of sight , out of mind , " and where any damage caused by slugs , wood-lice or mice is thus not readily noticed . 
It pays , therefore , to give these plants an occasional examination , and if any traces of these pests are seen , to put down some traps or bait straight away . 
With these quite dormant plants the temperature should be watched , too , for with gloxinias and achimenes particularly this should go no lower than 50° , and if it does the plants should be put somewhere warmer immediately . 
Begonia tubers , on the other hand , do not mind a slightly lower temperature than this , and with these the main danger is excessive dryness , which leads to shrivelling . 
If this occurs an occasional damping-over of the tubers will soon put matters right , but this should not be overdone and if there is any drip from the staging it is usually best to keep all these stored plants covered with , say , a piece of corrugated iron or asbestos sheeting . 
Keep Hydrangea Buds Plump 
The hydrangea is another plant which is usually stored in an out-of-the-way place , and here again excessive dryness can cause trouble if the plants are neglected . 
It is a mistake to think that hydrangeas need no water at all during the winter months — those growing outside are kept moist enough ! — and as long as they are kept cool enough to prevent premature growth it is quite safe to give them just sufficient to keep the green bud at the tip of each stem nice and plump . 
These buds , by the way , should contain the dormant flower-shoot for next year , and if they become affected by mildew , which can easily happen if the roots are kept too dry , the plants will obviously not flower as they should , if indeed they flower at all . 
And as an additional safeguard against mildew it is advisable to dust the buds with flowers of sulphur . 
With pot-grown fuchsias almost complete dryness during the resting season does not seem to matter , but this season is normally a comparatively short one , and in a heated house it should be safe enough to start watering immediately after Christmas . 
Even in a cold house a little watering at this time will do no harm as fuchsias are very nearly hardy , and this can , of course , be increased as the weather warms up . 
Heliotropes , however , are a very different matter , and unless the greenhouse can be kept well above freezing point it is almost impossible to keep them through the winter . 
In a reasonably warm house , though , they should not be difficult to keep if they are placed in the warmest position possible and kept moist , or on the dry side if anything . 
Rooted cuttings of heliotropes are usually much easier to keep than old plants , but here again water should be given very sparingly and the plants placed where they will get light and warmth . 
Protect from Cold Weather 
Zonal pelargoniums , fortunately , are much less touchy , and even in a cold house they will often survive if kept very dry and given a little extra protection in really cold weather — a few sheets of newspaper laid over them will often save the roots if not the tops . 
In a heated house , however , more water is advisable , as if the plants are kept too dry , they tend to become so hard that the stems are slow to " break " in spring . 
But too much water at this time will produce soft , long growths that are no use for anything , and the best method is to give the plants just enough to enable them to hold their own without making too much growth . 
Afterwards they should romp away in spring . 
THIS WEEK IN YOUR GARDEN By Percy Thrower , M.D.H. FLOWERS 
WE are now at the beginning of the planting season for trees , shrubs and roses . 
I like to get as much as possible of this planting done in November while the temperature of the soil is still fairly high , for this gives the roots a reasonable chance to get themselves established before bad weather sets in . 
No doubt many readers with new gardens will be considering the planting of hedges . 
Privet is usually the first shrub that comes to mind but I would not recommend it despite the fact that it is quick in growth , hardy and , in most districts , evergreen . 
Personally I would prefer beech which retains its beautiful golden-brown leaves in the winter or , in country districts , the hawthorn makes a fine hedge . 
But { Cupressus lawsoniana and { Thuja plicata make fine hedges , particularly where a screen of fair size is required . 
For small dividing hedges within the garden flowering shrubs such as escallonia , forsythia , cotoneaster or strong growing floribunda roses can be delightful . 
The preparation for the planting of trees , shrubs and roses should always be thorough because these are permanent plants which can not be disturbed once they are in . 
The site should be deeply dug with manure , garden compost or peat being worked into the soil . 
At the same time some bone meal can be sprinkled through the soil as it will assist in the formation of a good root system . 
If some of the herbaceous plants are to be lifted , divided and replanted , this work must either be done very soon or left over until February or March . 
It is not , in general , wise to move herbaceous plants in the middle of the winter . 
Some shrubs are a little tender and need a certain amount of protection in exposed areas . 
This is true of some veronicas and also of the larger flowered escallonias . 
In northern and eastern districts the large flowered hydrangeas are also safer with some protection . 
I do not recommend covering such tender shrubs completely with polythene but polythene can be wrapped around them , the top being left open . 
Better , however , in my view is protection with dry bracken or sacking , either of which can be held in place with canes and string . 
Very good lawns can be made quickly from turf provided the turf itself is reasonably clean and free of weeds . 
This is a good time of year at which to lay turf . 
VEGETABLES 
No doubt there will be many readers with new gardens who just now are thinking of making a vegetable garden for the first time . 
The first essential is to fork out all perennial weeds , i.e. weeds such as docks , dandelions , creeping buttercups , couch grass and bindweed which persist from year to year . 
All ground should then be dug at least to the full depth of a spade and left rough during the winter so that frost , wind and rain may break it up . 
Most vegetables like a firm soil and if digging is left until the spring , it is often difficult to get the soil firm enough for the best results . 
New land turned over now should be in ideal condition for vegetables for next year . 
It is particularly important to dig heavy land in autumn because there is nothing better than frost and wind to break down the lumps of clay . 
Just leave the clods as they are turned over , making no attempt to break them up , and then scatter basic slag over the surface at 4 to 6 oz. per sq . 
yd. or give a similar dressing of hydrated lime . 
Clear away the yellow leaves from around the lower parts of brussels sprout plants and put these on the compost heap . 
Take care not to damage any healthy leaves as these are feeding the plants still and helping the sprouts to form . 
It is not too late to make a further sowing of lettuce in a frame . 
Seedlings from earlier sowings should be examined from time to time and any decaying leaves removed . 
FRUIT 
For fruit also this is the ideal planting season and work can continue at any time when the soil is in reasonable condition until the end of March . 
Nevertheless I think autumn planting has much to commend it because the trees , bushes or canes get a longer period in which to establish themselves before commencing to grow in spring . 
Fruit trees should always be purchased from a really reliable source because many of them need to be on the right kind of root stock and some are very liable to become infected with virus disease unless they are properly inspected . 
In most gardens there is some wall or fence on which a fruit tree can be trained and a very pleasant and profitable method this is of making good use of such a position . 
For a north wall I recommend a Morello cherry , for an east wall a plum or greengage and for a south or west-facing wall , a peach , nectarine or apricot . 
Work in the Greenhouse 
At the moment the greenhouse is getting very congested with chrysanthemums , cinerarias , primulas , cyclamen , solanums , echeverias and on the shelves schizanthus , calceolarias and cuttings of the various bedding plants . 
It becomes quite a problem to know how to keep everything in good condition and it is more important than ever to use the ventilators as much as possible whenever outdoor conditions are favourable . 
What is essential is to maintain a free circulation of air around the plants and to keep the atmosphere reasonably dry . 
Schizanthus and calceolarias need very careful watering at this time of the year . 
In particular avoid splashing water unnecessarily over the leaves and still more do not allow it to collect at the base of the leaves . 
As the plants fill their pots with roots move them on to larger sizes . 
I have a stock of coleus cuttings , four in each 3 1/2in. pot and all nicely rooted . 
These I shall now put on a shelf near the glass and leave them there for the winter . 
From these stock cuttings I shall take further cuttings in spring as I find that the spring-struck cuttings make finer plants than those rooted in autumn . 
Take a look at begonia tubers in store and , if any show the slightest signs of decay , dust them with flowers of sulphur . 
Bulbs in pots , boxes and bowls which have been kept in a cool dark place or have been plunged in sand or ashes for at least eight weeks , can now be brought out and put in a frame , but no artificial heat should be used yet . 
As fuchsias begin to drop their leaves the supply of water to them should be reduced until eventually they are kept almost dry during the winter . 
Reliable Battery Operated Garden Tools Written and illustrated by A. D. Johnson 
WHEN the battery lawnmower was first introduced three years ago , and I expressed my enthusiasm for it , my friends nodded their heads sagely and expressed grave doubts about the prospect of having to renew the battery frequently at a cost of ten pounds odd . 
But I am still optimistic , for , after three seasons ' use my own battery is still holding its charge as well as it did when new . 
It has had no special attention , but I do adhere rigidly to three maxims — to charge it immediately after use every time ; to keep it topped up with distilled water ; and not to let it become frozen in the winter . 
Those enthusiasts for quiet effortless electric mowing who have already bought mains-operated machines may feel a little sad at having to live with their cable , so I was delighted to hear that Webbs are now willing to undertake conversion of mains machines to battery operation . 
STAMPS OF LEBANON 'S DOG RIVER by WILFRID T. F. CASTLE 
{ 3 " TAXI ! 
You go Jerusalem ? 
Taxi here , sir ! " 
" Amman ? 
Yes ? " 
" Taxi Damascus , yes please ? " 
" Taxi Baalbeck . 
You wan na go Baalbeck ? " 
" Taxi ! " 
" Taxi ! " 
The philatelic traveller landing at Beyrouth or trying to make his way to the General Post Office to buy some Lebanese stamps , soon concludes that he has never seen so many ultra-modern luxury cars in his life or so many drivers willing to take him where he does n't happen to be going . 
One persistent taxi follows him through the street , crawling by the sidewalk , its optimistic driver repeating at intervals { 3 " Taxi ? 
You like to go Dog River ? " 
It is the last bid of a Dutch Auction ! 
Why on earth should anyone want to go to the Dog River ? 
Especially a stamp collector on his way to buy some Lebanese stamps ! 
Yet if the stamp collector knows even a few words of Arabic the invitation to go the twelve kilometres along the northern coastal road to the Dog River will ring a bell . 
Dog River — { Nahr el-Kelb ! 
Why , that 's one of the best known stamp scenes in the Eastern Mediterranean ! 
A picture flashes to mind : a graceful old three-arched bridge , a river flowing through a rocky valley to the sea . 
How many Lebanese stamps have pictured this typical view ? 
" Oh , very well then , take me to the Dog River , please ... " 
"Jump in , sir ! " 
So off we go with the sea on the left and the tumbled mass of Mount Lebanon with its hundreds of valleys and villages on the right — off to see a well-known stamp scene with a fascinating story — a scene straight out of the current Gibbons Part 3 but a story that goes back some two thousand years B.C. 
First of all , a look at the design illustrated in the catalogue . 
The first stamp to show the { Nahr el-Kelb and its bridge was the 0p.50 postage due label of 1925 , as the scene was not chosen for the first set of definitive pictorials issued in that year . 
S.G.D.11 was a photogravure job by Vaugirard of Paris on yellow tinted paper and in common with all the early pictorials printed by Vaugirard was designed by J. de la Nezie2re . 
The first definitive postage stamp with this view was the 4 piastre value of the 1930 pictorial series ( S.G.171 ) which Gibbons illustrate as " Type 16 . " 
The designer and printer are the same , and in common with nearly all Lebanese stamps the caption below the frame gives designer , printer and subject . 
This is another photogravure — or as this printer calls it " heliogravure " — job . 
During the Second World War , however , the Lebanon , then a Republic somewhat unwillingly under French Mandate , was cut off from communication with the Vaugirard printers in Paris and a serious start was made in printing " do-it-yourself " offset lithographed stamps in Beyrouth . 
( As early as 1930 six Silk Congress commemoratives had been typographed locally . ) 
Under war conditions the last stamp to arrive from Paris was a solitary 5 piastre value printed in recess , and this was in the { Nahr el-Kelb design — Gibbons called it "Type 16 " as the design is similar to the photogravure stamp but the format is larger and it is in a rather bold style of recess painting . 
The colour is green-blue . 
Alone of all the 1930 pictorials the { Nahr el-Kelb was perpetuated in this way , and had history turned out differently others of the series might have followed with new values and colours and in recess engraving . 
But France fell and the French mandatory authorities in the Lebanon found themselves out in the cold . 
British and Free French forces entered the Lebanon and there was fighting and confusion until the signing of the Convention of Acre on July 14th , 1941 . 
There was by then no possibility of any more recess printed stamps coming from France . 
Indeed the French Mandate itself was doomed . 
With British backing and local enthusiasm the Lebanese Republic became an independent sovereign state on November 27th , 1941 . 
As a stamp subject the { Nahr el-Kelb survived the great political change . 
First came wartime stop-gap overprints . 
Among them the recess printed 5 piastre value received overprints altering the duty to 2 or 3 piastres ( S.G.261 and 262 ) . 
Miniature cedar trees are used to block out the original value . 
It was not until 1947 that the { Nahr el-Kelb scene again appeared on stamps . 
In that year four airmail stamps in offset lithography were printed in Beyrouth to commemorate the evacuation of all foreign forces from the Republic ( S.G.334-337 ) . 
The centre of this design — Gibbons " Type 48 " — shows the familiar bridge and river and on the right hand side of the design appears one of the inscribed rock tablets that are the unique feature of this scene . 
Presumably this tablet in Arabic commemorates the same event as does the stamp , and dates from 1947 . 
The attractive bridge which forms the central feature in all these stamp designs was built in its present form by the Emir Bechir Chehab during the years 1828-29 . 
So says an inscription on a stone tablet on the bridge itself . 
Another inscription chiselled in the rock at the south end of the bridge states that a bridge was built here by Sultan Selim 1 , the Ottoman Turkish conqueror of Lebanon , Syria , Palestine and Egypt who added these lands to his Empire in 1516-17 . 
But it is known that a Circassian Sultan of Egypt and Syria called Bargoug or Berkuk , who ruled from Cairo during the years 1382-99 , built a bridge here on the eve of the terrible Mongol invasions . 
Probably Saracens , Crusaders , Byzantines and Romans built or repaired bridges at this spot . 
Modern road and railway bridges take the lines of communication of to-day between Beyrouth and the north past the place where the mountain comes right down to the sea shore and the Dog River or { Nahr el-Kelb has to be crossed . 
There is little width for the road , especially between the headland of { Ras el-Kelb ( which terminates the southern bank of the river ) and the sea . 
In olden times the road was a narrow track clinging to the rocky face of the headland before descending to the earliest of the bridges that have carried it across the river . 
Later a Roman road took a more favourable route at a lower level . 
Constructed by order of the Caesar Marcus Aurelius Antonius about A.D. 173 it was reconstructed in Byzantine times . 
All through history people have been passing this spot and the rock face by the roadside offered the opportunity for conquerors down the ages to engrave records of their passage . 
They have inscribed panels up to ten feet in height in Arabic , English , French , Greek , Latin , Cuneiform , Assyrian and Hieroglyphic Egyptian witnessing to the deeds of such diverse heroes as Rameses 2 , Esarhaddon , Nebuchadnezzar , Napoleon 3 , General Allenby and United Kingdom , Australian , New Zealand and Indian troops . 
Our stamps show but one page of the world 's most gigantic visitors ' book ! 
Before looking at the rest of the Dog River stamps we must now answer the question of why this river is so called . 
Egyptian God 
The most up-to-date explanation is that the river was once connected with the Egyptian cult of the god Anubis , represented as a jackal or wolf , sometimes as a human figure with a jackal 's or dog 's head . 
Popularly he was looked upon as the Dog God who showed the way to the land of the dead and is supposed to have come to Lebanon with the cult of Isis and Osiris . 
In this cult Isis , searching for her dead lover , was guided by the dog Anubis , who became her guide and companion . 
Be that as it may , at some early period an enormous statue of a dog or similar animal was erected on the headland of { Ras el-Kelb ( Dog Head ) above the road and it is believed that this statue was vocal . 
The wind made it howl or bark . 
The sound was so strong that legend insists that the animal " awoke the echoes of far-distant Cyprus with his bark . " 
It must have been a strange experience on a stormy night to hear the sound coming over the water , even if the range was less than 125 miles ! 
The Greeks called the river { LYKOS POTAMUS and the Romans { LYCUS FLUMEN — both alike meaning " Wolf River . " 
Thus the Egyptian dog — or was he a jackal ? — became a wolf , and the wolf an Arab dog . 
Before exploring upstream to look at some other stamp scenes we must examine the later stamps showing the old bridge . 
These lack the elaborate arabesque frames of earlier types ; the bridge is more prominent and fills the scene , and despite the Druze , the Circassian and the Turk whose names are associated with its construction , the caption is " { Pont Arabe sur Nahr el-Kelb . " 
Perhaps this is to honour the men who probably did the actual work of building ! 
The issue of 1950 has five stamps designated by Gibbons as " Type 66 , " designed by P. Koroleff and printed in offset lithography by the { Imprimerir Catholique at Beyrouth ( S.G.411-415 ) . 
At first glance these stamps appear to be in photogravure and they certainly reproduce the characteristics of an original photograph , not a line drawing . 
The offset lithographed issue of 1951 ( S.G.433-437 ) consists , on the other hand , of stamps designed by Mr. Koroleff as line drawings — Gibbons " Type 74 . " 
At least two very distinct shades should be looked for : the 12p.50 value comes in both bright and dull turquoise and the 50 piastre in both light and dark green . 
In 1957 the same design reappeared in new colours and with the inscription " { Re2publique Libanaise " replaced by simply " Liban . " 
These stamps formed a short set of three values ( S.G.561-563 ) . 
We have lingered long enough by the bridge . 
Away we go , now upstream where " the bright little river dashes along through a glen which opens the very heart of the mountain " to see the Jeita Grottos , subject of the five vertical pictorials of the March 1955 definitives . 
( Two full sets of definitive pictorials every year could easily kill all philatelic interest in Lebanon ! ) 
These are S.G.514-518 . 
Three huge caves take the name of Jeita Grottos from the nearby village of Jeita , variously spelt Gita or Ghita . 
Out of the first cave rushes a large part of the river ; the second penetrates under the mountain and then descends into an abyss with parallel and branching passages , one of which gives access to the lowest cave . 
The third and largest cavern has a gallery or corridor and again we meet the river as it descends , crossing the cave and disappearing at the north-west corner with a thundering roar . 
Above the caves the banks of the { Nahr el-Kelb are formed of shattered cliffs of grey limestone nearly 2,000 feet high . 
Various tributaries come in , a waterfall roars over a rocky ledge , and then we reach a point where the river is spanned by a gigantic natural bridge , one of the geological wonders of the world . 
Natural Bridge 
The natural bridge is the { Jisr el-Hajr or { Jisr Hajar ( Stone Bridge ) and as it is a little to the south of the last village on a road which leads up from Djounie on the coast , the village of Fareiya or Faraya , it is described on the two stamps which depict it as " { Pont Naturel , Faraya . " 
These are the two lowest values of the Red Cross airmail stamps of 1947 ( S.G.338-339 ) . 
The stamps hardly convey a true impression of this massive bridge , but though handicapped by being in offset lithography the set as a whole is among the more highly priced of Lebanese stamps , the thematic appeal being two-fold . 
The { Jisr Hajar of Faraya is an elliptical arch of hard stone , slightly oblique but with regular abutments . 
Above the bridge the southern arm of the stream can be followed to its source at the { Neba el-Lebn or Milk Fountain . 
Another arm to the north-east rises at the { Neba el-Asul or Honey Fountain . 
Hereabouts the country is wild and bare . 
WINDMILLS Collectors ' pieces ... for the keen amateur By JEFFERY W. WHITELAW 
WINDMILLS , quaint and picturesque survivals from the past , have always been of great interest to the photographer . 
Unfortunately , however , in this modern age very few of these reminders of man 's early attempts at mechanization on a fairly large scale are still working and in too many cases they have been allowed to fall into disrepair — often with nothing but a brick stump remaining . 
On the other hand , and to the benefit of the country-lover and photographers alike , enlightened authorities , the Ministry of Works , the National Trust and even private individuals have made great efforts to preserve some of these mills before it is too late . 
Most of the windmills which appear to be complete are more than likely to have been restored and it is these which make magnificent photographs . 
A windmill in good repair with its bare sweeps against a suitable sky can make a most attractive subject — it may even produce an exhibition picture — and I have been adding to my collection for some years now . 
It will be useful at this point to give a brief history of the windmill for those who may be new to this subject . 
The three basic types of windmill are the Post Mill , the Tower Mill and the Smock Mill , and these can be described without the variations in design which are to be found in different parts of the country — some of these variations will be seen from the accompanying photographs . 
The oldest and most primitive type is the post mill which became known by this name because , in order that the mill should obtain the maximum power from the wind , the whole body was pivoted on a centre post supported by heavy timber beams in the form of a tripod . 
A long beam projected from the back of the mill and the miller had to push on this to bring the sweeps round to face the wind . 
A good example of an early post mill is to be seen at Bourn , in Cambridgeshire , and as the records can be traced back to 1636 it is now the oldest surviving windmill in the country , with the Cambridge Preservation Society making sure that it stays in good repair . 
Although the sweeps and tailbeam are modern replacements , the remainder is the original structure and of great interest . 
A key can be obtained at the farmhouse and there is complete freedom to go all over the mill with the possibility of photographs from every angle , both inside and out . 
It began to be realized that it was a great waste of labour and effort to have to turn the whole mill whenever the wind changed and by the end of the 17th century , tower mills were being built . 
These were solid buildings either of brick or clunch to house the machinery with revolving caps to which the sails were attached . 
The earliest caps had still to be turned by hand , but what has become known as the " fantail " was invented in the 18th century , thus removing the need for the miller to be constantly on the alert for a change in the wind . 
Into the Eye of the Wind 
The fantail consists of what is more or less a small windmill set at right-angles to the main sails , and when these are facing squarely into the wind the fantail does not move . 
As soon as the wind changes , it causes the fantail to start revolving and , working through a series of gears , the cap turns , so bringing the sails back into the " eye of the wind . " 
A number of post mills had the fantail added later and this undoubtedly saved many from demolition after the labour-saving tower mills were invented ; a particularly fine example recently restored by the Ministry of Works can be seen at Saxtead Green , near Framlingham in Suffolk . 
The third type of mill is in reality only a variant of the tower mill and known as the smock mill because of its fancied resemblance to an old farmer wearing a smock . 
The smock mill has a tapering timber-framed tower ( usually octagonal ) often on a brick base , and the frames are covered with boards . 
When considering windmills from the photographic viewpoint , it will soon become apparent that they are not the easiest of subjects , and that if something more than " just another record " is to be made of each mill as it is discovered , then quite a little thought must be devoted to the problems which may arise . 
To obtain a really first-class result I consider it is essential to have a bright sunny day with blue sky and good strong cumulus clouds — windmills usually look their best against this cotton-wool type of sky . 
Take it Now ! 
Unfortunately , these ideal conditions rarely occur at just the right time , and here I will give a word of advice , which would not be necessary with most other types of subjects . 
By all means plan to come back another day for another attempt if the weather should not be all that you hoped for , but do take a picture whatever the weather — when you come again it is possible that fire or a storm may have destroyed the mill overnight . 
Recently in the National Press there was a sad picture of the wreckage of the smock mill on Outwood Common , near Redhill , after it had collapsed one night at the end of 1960 , to prove that this is a very real hazard . 
It is quite likely that the mill will still be standing or even have been restored on another visit , but if not , then the picture taken on a dull day will not have been wasted because it was the last one taken before the mill met its end . 
Given ideal weather conditions one must decide what is the most favourable viewpoint — whether to take the mill straight on to the sails or from the side , whether just to take the mill on its own in a vertical format or to include it as part of the landscape as a horizontal . 
All these minor problems must be worked out as each mill is photographed . 
A side view is usually more pleasing , but it may be that a frontal view will be more effective in certain circumstances — sometimes the surroundings are very uninteresting , especially if the mill is hemmed in by farm buildings , and because of this a frontal view gives the best picture . 
Take a good walk all around the mill if this is possible : you should be able to make several exposures from different directions and some quite dramatic effects may be obtained . 
If , of course , the farm buildings are in harmony with the mill , then a very pleasant landscape may result with the mill as the central feature , and , in fact , the inclusion of the mill may add just what is needed to an otherwise uninteresting view . 
Although I have expressed a preference for bright sunny days , quite a different type of picture may , of course , be obtained when photographing windmills in the early morning or silhouetted against a sunset in the evening . 
{ Contre-jour shots will also be possible , in many cases to good effect . 
You may be fortunate in having all the sunshine you want but with not a cloud in sight : the careful use of the correct filter will then be necessary to create the right atmosphere in the final picture — perhaps a little shading-in will be required in enlarging . 
I hope that I have been able to convince you that photographing windmills is both rewarding and fascinating , and as I have pointed out already , opportunities for doing so are becoming less and less frequent . 
Start now on a similar collection and not only will it be of value for record purposes but your skill as a photographer will be tested to the full in obtaining really first-class results . 
One final word — no special equipment is needed for taking windmill pictures . 
All the accompanying illustrations were taken on one or other of my two Ensign 320 folding cameras , both being fitted with the superb Ross Xpres lens — cameras which are now obsolete but which can , however , be bought second-hand for about £10 or £12 these days . 
Experiment more with figure possibilities By RICARDO 
" WHY do n't you tell your beginners how lucky they are ? — to have cameras which do all their drawing for them . " 
This was from a figure artist friend of mine who sees these prints now and then . 
He went on to say that , being able to shoot off a dozen or so negatives by way of practising composition , the photographer today had never had it so good . 
By way of comparison , he thinks nothing of roughing out anything up to a dozen sketches before settling down to the real thing — a magazine illustration . 
When I asked him for some tips on figure work to pass on to my readers , his bland reply was to the effect that good figure form was good composition and that only by sticking at it , year in and year out , could one arrive ! 
I should like to add that helpful criticism all the way along plus the environment of an enthusiastic society makes it much more of a pleasure . 
ON THE BEACH : Mrs. H. Saphier 
I SHOULD imagine that this subject matter looked quite exciting in colour , with the large stones ( colourful greys ) compensating for their prominence by their hues . 
But in monochrome these stones dominate far too much and detract from the figure design and particularly from the motif — stone-throwing . 
The fundamental design of the two distant figures repeating the foreground figures is pleasing , and the low viewpoint was an excellent choice . 
However , the two dark big stones in the foreground , badly out of focus , tend to merge uncomfortably into the dark main figure and so cause a mirror-splitting of the design down the centre . 
Because these two central figures are looking strongly to the right the design also looks too heavy on the right . 
A sloping horizon does not help either . 
The second sketch concentrates on the nearer two figures only and a better figure form is given to the stone-thrower . 
Although these youngsters are now placed well over to the left , the design is well balanced , mainly because of the implied interest in the right , and the absence of unsightly rocks . 
HERE 'S HOPING : E. Abrey 
FOR a study of concentration and good timing to get the penny so well placed for balance , this is good work . 
The simple tone of the girl 's clothes is pleasing , and the selective focussing is ideal , throwing the distant trees into an essential diffusion , while the overhead lighting helps to dramatize and so to emphasize the girl 's sharp concentration . 
One weakness is the superfluous amount of foreground , all the more noticeable because of the out-of-focus numbering , not good in this respect . 
Another fault concerns the arrangement of the girl 's left arm , which contributes nothing to the atmosphere , while it could be quite useful . 
The figures in the rear , although out of focus , are also mildly disturbing . 
The next sketch suggests possible modifications . 
The left arm could be making one of many gestures suggesting excitement , and to link up with it the girl 's mouth could well be expressing " Oooh ! " 
A more distant viewpoint could have sharpened up the foreground figures slightly at the same stop , and to further reduce this useful area without resorting to trimming , the cross shadow of , say , an onlooker would have broken it up as shown . 
This shadow would also help to repeat and to balance the dark trees in the diagonally opposite corner . 
Is this all too suggestive of play-acting — so possibly losing that air of reality which is the strong feature of this print ? 
It all depends , but a little sensible directing now and then can make a big difference in the appeal of such an idea . 
LET ME TRY IT : L. Sharratt 
THE timely shooting of this very boyish trick has secured a most appealing and amusing atmosphere . 
"Sucu " hit amazes Nina and Frederik 
NINA and Frederik are happily divided ! 
Or at least , that 's the expression which Nina used , when she spoke to me on the phone from her Birmingham hotel . 
And if anyone should jump to the conclusion that this is another marriage on the rocks , let me hasten to correct them — there is n't a more happily married couple in the whole of show business . 
No , they are merely happily divided on a matter of personal opinion . 
For Nina told me that she actually prefers cabaret work , as opposed to appearing in large variety theatres — Frederik , on the other hand , settles for the theatres in preference to the night clubs . 
" So we agree to differ , bearing in mind that we each have our fair share , " chuckled Nina . 
Nina told me that both she and Frederik were thoroughly enjoying their first full-scale tour of Britain , and that they had been pleasantly surprised by audience reaction throughout this country and in Eire . 
" We had n't previously seen very much of Britain , but now that we 're able to get around to some extent , I can tell you that it has certainly come up to expectations . 
" And Ireland was a special revelation . 
I had n't been to Dublin before , though Frederik spent a few hours there last year , " she said . 
Contrary to general belief , most of Nina and Frederik 's work on the Continent is confined to theatres rather than cabaret . 
And it frequently happens that they adapt their act to each venue . 
But this has n't proved necessary in Britain . 
" We have several numbers which we regard as cabaret specialities , " said Nina . 
" Yet they appear to be so well-known here , that we 're able to do them on stage . " 
Having recently returned from Ireland when I spoke to her , Nina had n't realised that their recording of " Sucu-Sucu " had climbed into the hit parade . 
" It 's quite amusing how this came about , " she explained . 
" The song was originally sent to us by a music publisher , and at the time it had a Spanish lyric . 
But we liked the melody so much that Frederik translated it into English and French — we 've also recorded it in French . " 
Then one day during their cabaret season at the Savoy Hotel , they were relaxing for a few minutes in their dressing-room , watching TV . 
And at the end of the " Top Secret " adventure yarn which they had switched on , they suddenly heard the strains of " Sucu-Sucu " — complete with Frederik 's lyric . 
" We were amazed at the time , " Nina continued . 
" But when we discovered how popular the series is , we were not surprised when Laurie Johnson 's recording came into the best-sellers . 
Actually , in view of this , I 'm rather surprised to learn that our version has become a hit . " 
I asked Nina about their subsequent plans , after the current British tour finishes early in December , and she told me that initially they will return to the Continent — with the principal object of searching for new material . 
" And we 're hoping to come back to Britain in the spring , with a collection of new songs , " she said . 
DEREK JOHNSON . 
MEET THE COMPOSER Bunny Lewis scrubbed floors before fame came 
A DISTINGUISHED war career counts for very little when hostilities cease and you don civilian clothes to start looking for a job . 
Take the case of composer-agent-promoter Bunny Lewis , for example . 
During the last war , he served with the famous Black Watch regiment and Special Air Services , won a Military Cross and was mentioned in dispatches . 
His first post-war job ? ... 
Scrubbing floors ! 
" It was the only thing I could find . 
My war career meant nothing , and I had a terrible time finding work . 
Finally , I turned to scrubbing floors to make ends meet . 
But eventually things got better and I ended up in the music business , " Bunny told me this week . 
Bunny made his first contact with the music business in 1947 , when he was employed as a publicist for impresarios Tom Arnold and Prince Littler at dance halls . 
A little later , he worked for the BBC , writing scripts for the " Picture Page " TV series and then moved on to become professional manager at Francis , Day and Hunter , the music publishers . 
After a spell with Decca , he launched his own agency in 1955 — and that 's when the Bunny Lewis success story really began . 
The agency grew to be a powerful concern , and Bunny now handles the affairs of such stars as Craig Douglas , the Mudlarks , Garry Mills , the Avons , Al Saxon , Lorrae Desmond , orchestra leader Harry Robinson , newcomer Doug Sheldon , and top disc jockeys like David Jacobs , Jack Jackson , Don Moss , Alan Freeman and David Gell . 
He personally records most of his artists ' discs , promotes concert and variety dates and , as a result of appearances on the panel of BBC-TV 's " Juke Box Jury , " is also something of a TV personality himself . 
In addition , it 's important to note that Bunny is also one of Britain 's finest and most successful lyricists . 
Remember David Whitfield 's million-selling transatlantic hit "Cara Mia " ? 
Bunny wrote the lyrics . 
He also wrote the words , too , for " Girl Of My Best Friend , " a big hit in Britain for Elvis Presley and a best seller in the States for promising newcomer Ral Donner . 
He also penned the lyrics for such memorable hits as Cliff Richard 's " Voice In The Wilderness " and " Livin' Lovin' Doll , " Garry Mills ' " Top Teen Baby , " Frankie Vaughan 's " Milord " ( which had special English words ) , David Whitfield 's "Rich Man , Poor Man , " Max Bygraves ' " Little Train , " Craig Douglas ' " Riddle Of Love " and the Mudlarks ' " The Love Game . " 
Vera Lynn has enjoyed success with many of Bunny 's songs , among them " Forget Me Not , " " The Homecoming Waltz , " " The Love Of My Life , " " The Windsor Waltz " and " Try Again , " which was waxed in the States by Dean Martin . 
Orchestra leader Mantovani had a big seller with his instrumental " Luxembourg Polka , " which also hit the highspots in the U.S. 
Apart from " Riddle Of Love , " Craig Douglas has waxed such Lewis songs as " The Girl Next Door , " " My First Love Affair , " " My Hour Of Love " and his latest release " No Greater Love , " written in collaboration with Michael Carr . 
Dickie Valentine did well with Bunny 's " Lazy Gondolier , " while Al Saxon just missed the charts with his " Blue Eyed Boy , " which is covered on two new Stateside discs this week . 
Bunny also contributed songs to the Cliff Richard Film " Expresso Bongo " and for the savage , underworld movie " The Frightened City . " 
He worked with Norrie Paramour to produce two songs , " I Laughed At Love " and " The Marvellous Lie " ( which has been waxed by Helen Shapiro ) . 
More songs by London-born Bunny — who is married to French singer Janique Joelle , formerly a principal star with the famous " Folies Bergere " and has a six-year-old daughter , Fabienne — will be heard in such future films as " A Change Of Heart " ( which stars Janette Scott ) , " The Painted Smile " ( in which Craig Douglas appears ) , and the much-publicised " It 's Trad , Dad . " 
KEITH GOODWIN DEREK JOHNSON predicts SINATRA WILL PUT HIMSELF IN THE BACKGROUND MUCH MORE 
IT seems generally agreed that Frank Sinatra 's " Granada " is one of the most satisfying records he has cut for some time . 
His more recent releases on Capitol , both singles and albums , have all generated a feeling of staleness and apathy , which now seems to have been remedied with Frank 's switch to his own label . 
There 's little doubt that working for himself has caused Sinatra to shed his cloak of indifference , and it could well be that the revitalised Frank will aspire to even greater heights under these new circumstances . 
But just how long can Frank remain as a top recording star , having now long passed the stage of being a teenage idol ? 
Will he continue more or less indefinitely , as Bing appears to be doing ? 
Or what 's more to the point , does he want to continue singing ? 
It is increasingly apparent that he is devoting considerably more time these days to filming activities , involving straight acting roles . 
And earlier this year , he signed a 15-million dollar contract , which will keep him busy either producing or starring in movies for the next seven years . 
But as the "Reprise " label is his latest investment , it 's obvious that he will devote a great deal of interest to this project — though not necessarily with the object of showcasing himself as an artist . 
Speaking of his future plans recently , Sinatra said : " One idea I have for the future is to develop more things that do n't involve me personally and my talent . 
" I 'd like to be able to function more in other departments than I have been able to do in the past . 
With this new film deal , I want to try and find properties that do n't concern me directly . 
Same thing with my record company — I want to spend more time looking for new talent , soloists , song writers , young guys . " 
In one of the rare interviews which Sinatra granted a couple of years back , he intimated that — after more than 20 years in the business — he would still rather sing than do anything else . 
But no doubt his 45 years are now catching up with him , particularly bearing in mind the tremendous pace at which he lives , and he sees himself today as a sort of patriarch of youth . 
Absorbing 
I have just been reading one of the most absorbing show-biz books to come my way for many months — a no-punches-pulled character study of " Sinatra And His Rat Pack " by the American writer , Richard Gehman . 
It 's a paper-back , selling at 3s. 6d. and published by Mayflower — and for a remarkably revealing close-up of this controversial entertainer and his friends , I strongly commend it to you . 
The term " Rat Pack " seems to have superseded " Clan " in the description of Sinatra 's followers and friends — and the book devotes a full chapter to an analysis of each of them , including Humphrey Bogart who was the original leader of the " Clan . " 
So far as Frank is concerned there is a complete biography contained within the book — and the basic facts are buried in such a welter of anecdotes it never fails to hold one 's attention . 
No detail is overlooked — from an assessment of his income ( reckoned to be a 2 1/2 million dollars last year ) to a survey of his many love affairs — real and rumoured — which have played such a predominant part in his stormy career . 
Probably due to his rather squalid surroundings as a child , Frank is one of the most extravagant spenders in the entertainment world . 
One of his closest friends is quoted as saying : " Frank does n't spend money — he destroys it ! " 
And examples galore are given to substantiate this point . 
When he was appearing in Miami , he had his favourite Broadway barber flown down to give him a haircut ; when he broke a tooth , he had a dentist flown thousands of miles to fix it ; he has a cuff-link collection which occupies two drawers ; he owns more than 150 suits and countless shirts — which he will need if the statement that he changes his shirt six times a day is correct ! 
Despite his spendthrift habits , Sinatra is also exceedingly generous . 
" Nobody knows all the wonderful things Frank does , " says comedian Joey Bishop , who is a member of the " Rat Pack . " 
But Richard Gehman 's book has unearthed some of the instances — how Frank paid for Mildred Bailey 's funeral , and has subsequently kept her former husband Red Norvo in regular work ; how he helped Bela Lugosi when he was in hospital , although Frank had never met the actor ; how when Phil Silvers ' partner fell ill just before their cabaret debut at the Copacabana , Sinatra flew to New York to open with him , and how he gave some of his best lines in a picture to an actor who , he thought , needed them . 
And there 's the fascinating story of the manner in which he aided the widow of an acquaintance of his — Charles Morrison , owner of Hollywood 's Morcambe night club . 
Learning that Mrs. Morrison was in financial trouble , Frank phoned to say that he was going to appear at the club for a couple of nights without payment — and duly arrived complete with a 21-piece band ! 
NATIONAL BRASS BAND CLUB 
FIRST I must express my thanks for the Christmas cards , calendars , diaries etc. , sent to me by well-wishers throughout the brass band movement . 
Those thoughts are greatly appreciated , and I would like this to serve as my grateful acknowledgement , as it is impossible for me to write to everyone individually . 
May you all have a very happy , prosperous , and successful New Year in the cause of Brass Banding . 
On Monday December 19 , I was honoured to welcome the arrival in this country of Mr. Herbert Hazelman of the American Bandmasters Association , and leader of the Greensboro High School Band , North Carolina . 
He came over on a fleeting visit to study British brass bands and their methods . 
At the invitation of Harry Mortimer I took him along to the B.B.C. studios where he spent several hours listening to recordings of some of our top brass bands , and to say he was amazed at the tone and execution is putting it mildly . 
He admitted that what he heard was far in advance of anything they had in America . 
They have no brass bands of our instrumentation in America . 
Nearly all their bands , and they have a great many , are brass and wood-wind . 
Even their brass instruments are entirely different to ours , and as he puts it himself , being American , they have to have everything larger than anybody else , thus , larger instruments with larger bores . 
Their musical education , however , is far in advance of anything we have here . 
Music is a compulsory subject in schools and is paid for through the taxpayer . 
There appears to be much we can learn from each other . 
He attended an Executive Meeting of the Club in the evening , which had been specially put back a week for his benefit , and was delighted to make the acquaintance of the members at a well-attended meeting , to whom he gave a most absorbing and interesting re2sume2 of the methods and activities of American bands , particularly school bands . 
He hopes to bring his band over to this country in the near future so that brass bandsmen may have the opportunity of hearing and studying their style of playing . 
Dr. Denis Wright entertained him on the following day Tuesday for a further session on brass bands . 
We hope to hear more of this meeting between our two countries . 
We are indebted to Mr. Gurney Doe , Secretary of the National Association of Brass Band Conductors , who was instrumental in bringing to our notice the proposed visit of Mr. Hazelman which enabled us to make direct contact with him as far back as last September . 
Have you made your New Year 's resolution yet ? 
If you are not a member of the National Brass Band Club , we hope that one of your resolutions will be to join our ranks , and so help us in furthering the welfare of brass bands , as well as deriving some benefits for yourself . 
Remember that the Club is a member of the National Music Council of Great Britain and is also affiliated to the Standing Conference of Amateur Music . 
For particulars of membership write to our Membership Secretary , Mr. H. Hoole , 9 Kingston House East , Princes Gate , London , S.W.7 . 
A. J. MOLINARI , 
Hon. General Secretary . 
Our District Correspondents write — Northern by SEMPER IDEM 
RECENTLY , I received an invitation to attend the Annual Dinner of Cargo Fleet Band which , unfortunately , I was unable to accept . 
I understand they had a grand evening . 
As a band they are in good form and eager to improve on their splendid record . 
Crookhall Colliery Band , our area champions by their win at the C.I.S.W.O. contest , have definitely proved themselves the band of 1960 , for this district . 
After winning the D.H . 
area contest for three successive years they struck a lean patch but have stormed back to the top . 
Next to the champions I would choose Easington Colliery and Wallsend Shipyard . 
Easington , runners up in the D.H . 
area contest and C.I.S.W.O. and winners of the Durham League Championships have an impressive record which was enhanced by winning 2nd place at Newcastle Corporation Contest for the 2nd successive year . 
Wallsend Shipyard who were 3rd in the D.H . 
area won the May Day Contest at the City Hall and also the Newcastle Corporation Contest . 
Another band with a fine record in 1960 is Cowpen and Crofton Colliery . 
They have an impressive array of prizes and will be welcome competitors in the championship section this year . 
I had the pleasure of attending South Shields S.A. on the occasion of their Marshall Festival . 
Newcastle Temple Band and Sunderland Citadel Songsters rendered some of Bandmaster Marshall 's finest pieces . 
Unfortunately , the acoustics of the very large hall rather marred the performances but on the whole there was some good playing and singing . 
The Temple Band were well served by horns and trombones and I was very impressed with South Shields Central Band ( J. Strike ) . 
Small , but compact , they gave a nice rendering of the march , Neath the Flag . 
Captain Dean Goffin was the chairman . 
Yorkshire by DALESWOMAN 
CONGRATULATIONS to our two Yorkshire bands launching the B.B.C. competition " Northern Brass " on Friday , January 6 . 
They set a very high standard and I am sure felt rather like a band who had drawn number one in any contest . 
It was a thrilling experience to be part of the studio audience on this occasion . 
A special word of congratulation for Yorkshire Imperial Metals Band , ( Mr. Harry Tomkins ) and Mr. George Hespe their conductor . 
I am sure everyone will agree that their programme was full of " entertainment value " . 
1961 is the 25th anniversary of the Yorkshire Imperial Metals Band and I understand the occasion is to be celebrated on March 4 at the Griffin Hotel , Leeds . 
As this is the day following the band 's appearance in the second round of the B.B.C. competition it would be fitting if they could make it a double celebration . 
Mr. Fred Spencer , the solo euphoniumist of Brighouse and Rastrick , has just completed twenty five years with the band . 
Although still a very talented player , Mr. Spencer has decided to relinquish his position in favour of the solo baritone . 
Mr. Robert Davidson ( junior ) is to replace Mr. Spencer . 
The A.G.M. of Brighouse & Rastrick Band has been fixed for January 22 . 
Scotland by GLENSIDE 
THE last 'phone call I received in 1960 brought the distressing news of the passing of my dear old friend , Willie Macrae , late treasurer of the S.A.B.A. and the Edinburgh Charities Band Association , both of which he served for many years until his retirement four or five years ago . 
He was taken suddenly ill and passed away in Edinburgh Royal Infirmary . 
He was 60 years of age . 
Willie was a prominent member of Gorebridge and Arniston Band . 
There was a large attendance at the funeral , including the Hon. President of the S.A.B.A. Our deep sympathy goes to Mrs. Macrae . 
I am informed that two members of Bowhill Colliery Band ( horn and brass players ) have joined Barry , Ostlere & Shepherds Band . 
A fine programme of Scottish music was given on the radio by Clydebank Burgh Band with Charles Telfer in command . 
This gave great pleasure to listeners in this part of the country . 
Congratulations to Tony Clucas , cornet soloist , on his brilliant rendering of Allison 's " Caledonia " . 
I agree with our Editor when he asks for a deeper understanding of Christmas . 
Do we ever give the idea a moment 's thought ? 
Goodwill should always be predominant , but why only at Christmas ? 
Many take the sordid thought that Dicken 's " Christmas Carol " typifies Scroogelike attitude , while others go out just for merry-making and enjoyment , but to me the Holy Spirit of Christmas should be foremost in the minds of our band members . 
I am no kill-joy , but would love to see this period of the year treated with more reverence . 
I have had no news of the Scottish Amateur Music Association Course at Forfar during Christmas week . 
I understand that over 30 pupils attended and studied under Dr. Denis Wright . 
I believe most of them hailed from Fifeshire . 
I have no doubt that under Dr. Wright nothing but success could crown the effort . 
A golden opportunity is afforded all bands who will be competing at the four Championship contests in the Usher Hall , Edinburgh , on February 25 , to replenish their repertoire of music . 
The " Bandsman 's " own stall will be there offering Selections , Marches etc. and there will be special bargains on sale for that day . 
Miss Bantin will be there in person ready to give her friendly advice to all who care to take advantage of her visit to the Capitol . 
According to the rules of the British Contesting Council , Scottish C.W.S. Band , having won the championship three times in succession , will not be allowed to take part in the Usher Hall Championship in February . 
This year there will be new Scottish Champions who , along with S.C.W.S. will represent our Country at the London Finals . 
It is hoped that the 2nd and 3rd prize winners will accompany these two bands . 
I note that most of the Kenneill Colliery Band officials have been replaced and there is a new secretary in place of Mrs. Kirkwood . 
I am sorry she has been displaced as she proved herself to be a model scribe . 
The new secretary is Mr. Dean , 62 Avon Place , Bo'ness , West Lothian . 
North Wales by CELT 
{ BLWYDDYN NEWYDD DDA I CHWI I GYD ( Happy New Year to you all ) . 
Ifton Silver were out on Christmas Eve playing carols to a large audience at the Miner 's Institute , St. Martins , afterwards playing for dancing . 
On Christmas Day they visited the Last Inn , Hengoed , and made a collection for the band fund . 
Much credit for this effort goes to the Secretary , Mr. Aubrey Pugh , who carried the bandsmen and instruments in relays in his own van to save the band 's fund . 
It is due to his financial and untiring help that the band is continuing to function as they are not supported by any industrial firm . 
Deiniolen and District ( J. E. Williams ) played carols in their district during the week before Christmas . 
The Band of 6/7th Batt . 
R.W.F. ( T.A. ) conducted by W.O.1 J. H. Hughes , accompanied the carols when the surpliced choirs of Caernarvon joined them on the square on Christmas Eve . 
The Rector of Caernarvon , Rev. Canon J. H. Williams , introduced the hymns and carols . 
A collection was made for the Church of England Blind Fund . 
Llanwrug and District ( W. T. Davies ) were engaged for a concert at the Memorial Hall , Rhosgadfan on December 29 . 
Guest Soloists were Miss Menna Pritchard , soprano , and Miss Megan Thomas , harp and Penillion . 
The band 's soloists were Messrs. Derek Lloyd Jones , O. T. Jones and Gwilym Roberts in a cornet trio , Mr. Robert Hughes , euphonium solo , and the conductor played a tubular bell solo accompanied by the band , which was conducted by deputy-conductor O. T. Jones . 
The band have a series of concert engagements in the next few weeks . 
Young Trevor Davies , who was seriously injured in January 1960 , is now home from hospital and back in his position with the band . 
Mr. G. H. Griffiths , popular Secretary of Rhyl Silver , was rushed to hospital on Friday before Christmas and is to remain lying very quietly for at least a month . 
Before going into hospital Mr. Griffiths has had a bad time during the last four or five years , and during the last two has done nothing but visit hospitals for consultations , etc . 
Mr. Griffiths is very cheerful and praises the staff of the hospital . 
He would like to thank the several bandsmen up and down the country who have sent good wishes , and especially Mr. & Mrs. Middleton , and Peter , of Brighouse for their kind wishes . 
Young Peter is a playing member of Brighouse and Rastrick Band . 
We all wish you better health in 1961 , Mr. Griffiths , and hope you will soon be home again . 
If any bandsmen friends who would like to write to Mr. G. H. Griffiths — and I know he will appreciate your letters — the address is : Men 's Medical Ward , H. M. Stanley Hospital , St. Asaph , Flints . 
STEPS TO SUCCESS The Value of Medals — an introduction BY BOB MORE 
RECENT articles of " Steps to Success " , have been for beginners in the Four Standard English dances , and we have covered sufficient to enable the non-dancer of a few months back to now dance around in the average ballroom without feeling self-conscious and with just enough figures to avoid the monotony of repetition . 
In the dancing school it is usually when this stage is reached that the pupil is asked to move on to a different class of instruction ; either to an intermediate class , where an added variation is taught at each session , or to a Bronze and Silver Medallist Class , where time will be mainly spent in improving the style of dancing and the execution of the figures already learnt . 
The choice you make is sometimes determined by temperament , but is often determined by the type of dancing school you attend . 
The average person , attending for the first time , requires in most instances to learn enough to attend a dance and get round the floor , and probably regards it as rather a bind to have to attend a dancing school in order to do it . 
Having enrolled , however , they usually make new friends very quickly . 
The instructors , surprisingly , are human , helpful , good humoured , and have the uncanny knack when partnering you to make you feel like a good dancer . 
Before very long you are actually looking forward to your next visit , and the dancing school is by now referred to as " The Club " Your Club ! 
Then , if you were observant , when you attended a social or a party night at the school , where the different standards were mixed together , you noticed that some dancers appeared to stand out . 
Not necessarily because they knew that latest variation with the hop , skip and jump , but because there was something about the way they poised their bodies ; the smooth , effortless way they moved across the floor , particularly in the Slow Foxtrot ; and their steps appeared to fit the music just that little bit better than other dancers on the floor . 
Well , they are usually " The Medallists " . 
Maybe you feel the desire to be a good dancer , like the people whose dancing you admire ; maybe you just want to go on belonging to " The Club " , or maybe , having been shown some of the medals and certificates other pupils have won , you feel it would be nice to have some like them yourself , but whatever the reason , if you decide to become a medallist , you can supplement your lessons in " Dance News " , because " Steps to Success " will , for the next series concentrate on helping you to get that Bronze Medal . 
First of all , what is required to win this award ? 
To dance a few basic figures in Waltz , Slow Foxtrot , and Quickstep , with particular emphasis on Footwork , Timing and Carriage of the body . 
One other thing : the examination fee . 
In the I.D.M.A. this is 12s. 6d . 
In most other societies the fee is a similar amount . 
You may say : " Why is it necessary to pay a fee to win a Bronze Medal ? " 
Well , it should be obvious that the days of Fairy Godmothers with magic wands are long since past , and the money has to come from somewhere . 
The fee , which is a modest sum by present day standards , provides the examiner 's fee ( and he or she is usually one of the Dancing Profession 's leading personalities ) ; the office staff to handle the organisational side of the examination ; the rent of the centre where the examination is conducted ( although this may be conducted at your teacher 's school ) and , of course , the Medal , Certificate , Report on your dancing , and in some instances a Pin Badge to wear in the lapel or as a tie pin . 
I think you will agree this represents good value for money . 
STEPS TO SUCCESS The Value of Medals By Bob More 
PUPILS often ask , is it difficult to obtain a Bronze Medal , and as the late Professor Joad was heard to say many times on the Radio Brains Trust , " That depends on what you mean by difficult " . 
I liken the Bronze Medal Test to the first examination of the child learning English . 
The child , quite obviously , would not be expected to produce a composition , but would be expected to know the alphabet , where the full stops and commas are used , and be able to write in a legible manner , something like , " The cat sat on the mat " . 
The actual requirements for a Bronze Medal Test are , that the candidate dances three dances , Waltz , Foxtrot and Quickstep , with an Amateur or Professional partner , paying particular attention to the Footwork , Timing and Alignment of the figures . 
In short , it is rather a test in understanding of the basic fundamentals of dancing , for without the correct foundation , nothing very worthwhile will be produced later . 
The figures used in the Bronze Test should not be difficult to elaborate . 
To use advanced figures , particularly if not danced well , can often result in a candidate being marked badly , so the first precept is , do n't do too much . 
Better to remember the old maxim , " Little and good " . 
The next problem is 1 ) does the teacher give the pupils a sequence of figures that progress completely round the room , or 2 ) a series of groups of figures , or 3 ) just teach the required figures and leave it to the pupil to amalgamate them as best they can . 
Different teachers and schools have varied ideas on this . 
Margaret and I , particularly in the lower grade tests , always teach a sequence . 
Argument against this , of course , is that the pupil 's mind may go blank if they are nervous , and fail to produce any dancing at all , and it does sometimes happen . 
We think this is a lesser risk , however , than having a pupil get to a corner and forget how to get round it , when they have n't been given a sequence at all . 
Here in the pages of Dance News it is not entirely practicable to give a sequence of figures , for obviously , that which suits one shaped room , will not suit another . 
This we will endeavour to overcome by giving sequences to fit a comparatively small hall , and if you have the good fortune to be examined in a large hall . 
THE WALTZ 
Taking the Waltz first , a group of figures that really must be included are , Natural Turn , Closed Change and Reverse Turn , danced in that order , and referred to as " The Waltz basic amalgamation " . 
This , in turn , could be followed by two figures , long beloved of all Bronze Medallists , The Whisk , followed by the Syncopated Chasse , all of which have been described in recent " Steps to Success " . 
These figures should cover the long side of the room , and we now have to negotiate the first corner , but before doing this we will emphasise some of the things you must concentrate on showing in your dancing of the basic amalgamation . 
First and foremost requirement in the Bronze Medal Test , correct footwork . 
For the Gentleman and Lady on their forward half of the Natural and Reverse Turns , and for the Gentleman on the Closed Change , this is 1 ) Heel ; 2 ) Toe ; 3 ) Toe . 
When we say the first step is taken on the heel , we mean the toe of this foot should be clear of the floor almost as soon as the foot moves forward , and , in fact , as the foot moves forward the distance between the floor and the toes should be gradually increasing . 
This we refer to as a " heel lead " . 
A regular comment from examiners on bronze medal test reports is , " Some heel leads missed " , which means , instead of the leading steps being taken as I have just described , the foot is pushed across the floor with the feet flat , or , worse still , with the toe in contact with the floor , and the heel raised . 
As the foot moves forward and is placed on the heel , the back heel should be allowed to rise easily , and naturally , then as the weight transfers to the front foot , and you rise on to it , retain light pressure ( not weight ) on the toe of the back foot as it moves to the side for Step 2 . 
This will give a controlled movement . 
Similarly , as the foot closes on the third step , retain pressure ( not weight ) on the toe of the moving foot as the close is made , then lower heel of the supporting foot as the next step is taken . 
STEPS TO SUCCESS The Value Of Medals By BOB MORE 
IN last week 's lesson we spoke about the footwork on forward movements in the Waltz basic amalgamation . 
This week we will talk about movement and floor coverage on these figures ; that is , Natural Turn , Closed Change and Reverse Turn . 
Floor coverage is a topic on which many dancers have the wrong ideas , for to achieve good floor coverage it is not essential to take long steps . 
In fact , for a short person to overstride in an endeavour to cover a lot of ground will tend to unbalance the couple and make the movements unrhythmical . 
Of greater importance than length of stride is that the steps should be taken in the correct direction , and to do this we must turn the correct amount between the steps of a figure . 
The Natural Turn should commence facing diagonally to the wall and end facing diagonally to the centre . 
The following Closed Change will therefore commence facing diagonally to the centre and end in the same direction . 
Following this , the Reverse Turn will therefore commence facing diagonally to the centre and should end facing diagonally to the wall . 
Inexperienced dancers often have difficulty in ending the Natural Turn in the correct alignment ; facing centre instead of diagonally to centre , and on the Reverse Turn they will often end facing wall instead of diagonally to wall . 
It is usually the man who is at fault , and the fault is , failure to turn the hips sufficiently between steps 5-6 . 
The correct alignments for the last half of the Natural Turn ( Steps 4-6 ) , is : 
4 ) Backing down the room . 
5 ) Pointing diag to centre . 
6 ) Facing diag to centre . 
On step 5 the toe must turn out , and the foot turns more than the body . 
On step 6 the body must continue turning , to face where the feet point . 
The same applies on the 2nd half Reverse Turn , but here the alignments are : 
4 ) Backing down the room . 
5 ) Pointing diag to wall . 
6 ) Facing diag to wall . 
Attention to these points of alignment will produce more effective movement . 
Also of help in covering the floor is correct footwork , which we stressed last week , and correct rise and fall . 
The normal rise and fall in the Waltz basic amalgamation is : Down as the first step in the bar is taken ; commence to rise at the end of this step , as you take the second step , and then continue to rise as the feet close on the third step . 
Remember , though , if you step back on the first beat of a bar ( Gentleman 4th step of Natural and Reverse Turns , Lady 1st step of Natural and Reverse Turns ) you commence to rise in the body only . 
The heel of the foot remaining in contact with the floor , until after the second step is positioned . 
Before leaving the basic Waltz figures , there is one more point we must emphasise . 
A not infrequent comment Examiners find obliged to make on examination reports is , " Some closes could be neater " . 
The feet should be closed with the heels and toes level . 
Inexperienced dancers often find this difficult , the Gentleman tending to close the foot forward , the Lady backwards , instead of together . 
This can usually be corrected by taking more care with the position of the step preceding the close . 
The bronze medallist should think of the three foot movements in these basic figures as : 1 ) Forward ; 2 ) Side ; 3 ) Close ; or 1 ) Back ; 2 ) Side ; 3 ) Close . 
Budgerigar Breeding in a Flat Spare Room Converted to a Well-laid-out Birdroom By H. HOUGH 
WHEN first I decided to take up Budgerigar breeding I was in no particular hurry to start buying birds . 
The first thing I did was to glean every scrap of information on the subject , from every possible source . 
Bookshops , both new and second-hand , began to recognize me on sight , the local librarian knew just what I was after , and quite a few fanciers must have begun to dread my approach in my insatiable quest for more and more facts to add to my growing store of knowledge . 
All the time I made notes on feeding problems , odd habits , minor complaints and their treatment , all the do 's and don'ts , etc. , until I began to feel that I was in a position where I should certainly be able to cope with most of the difficulties which might reasonably fall to my lot . 
Now was the time to exchange theory for practice , and I began to consider how and where I was going to house my stock . 
Useful Packing-cases 
Being a flat dweller an outside aviary , with or without controlled flights , was out of the question , but I did possess a small spare room , and this , I decided , should become my birdroom . 
From a local warehouse I was lucky enough to obtain a number of excellent packing-cases each measuring 3ft x 18in x 18in . 
After laying the lids on one side , I lined the top , back and sides with hardboard , and drilled a 1 1/2in hole high up at one end of each to furnish an entrance to the nest-boxes . 
To give a better finish to the nest-box end of the cage , I screwed on some natural cork bark , cutting an irregular hole to correspond with the nest-box entrance hole . 
Natural Knothole 
This was to represent the natural knothole through which wild Budgies enter their nest , and I must say that this addition has proved its worth in many ways . 
When I later introduced my birds to their new quarters , it was amazing how quickly the pairs rounded and smoothed off the holes to suit their own requirements . 
The bark also gave the birds something on which they could satisfy their penchant for gnawing , without causing any material damage to the structure of the cages themselves . 
It also , I should add , formed an easy means of re-entry , when the chicks made their first tentative exit from the nests . 
It is amazing how quickly and well a young chick can scuttle up a piece of bark , and the constant fluttering of their wings during this operation must certainly help to strengthen them in preparation for early flight . 
The next job was to fit a 1 1/2in shelf at the back of the cage , with a series of carefully spaced holes in which I could hook the seed , grit and water vessels . 
A clock-spring clip was screwed below the shelf to hold a piece of cuttlefish bone , and I made a bottom tray from hardboard and beading . 
A narrow rail , under which the tray slid smoothly , also served as the bottom fixing for the cage fronts , which I bought ready made . 
All I had to do now was to attach the nest-boxes , which I fastened by means of carefully measured nuts and bolts , taken right through the end of the cage and the cork bark . 
The other essential was a good-sized flight cage , and this I made from multiple plyboard to my own design . 
It stands at eye-level ( on two strong brackets ) and is 4ft long , 2ft high and 14in wide . 
The roof is covered with 1/2in mesh netting , and the upper 20in of the front is composed of two sliding glass panels . 
This cage is capable of being divided into two halves , by means of a sliding hardboard partition . 
I can recommend this type of cage , as it is impossible for the birds to throw out any seed husks , and I found that they very quickly get used to the idea of a glass front . 
Working Table and Desk 
The cages were arranged on tables and shelves opposite the flight cage , and right in front of the window I placed a table which was to serve as both a working table and office desk . 
A fitted cupboard in the room acts as repository for food and accessories so that the whole place can be kept neat and tidy . 
All cages are cleaned out daily , and I do think that this is a " must " when a number of birds are kept indoors , especially during the breeding season , when the hens ' droppings are loose and copious , and , if neglected , will soon give grounds for complaint . 
Before obtaining my birds , I gave careful consideration to the problems of diet , not only for adult birds but for the future chicks which I hoped to raise . 
I started my food list with best Spanish canary seed , to which I added 25 per cent of white millet . 
This was to act as the basic diet , to which I would add natural greenfoods as and when obtainable . 
Among these I carefully listed chickweed , seeding grasses , lettuce , carrot , apple and groundsel . 
All these items which I still offer when obtainable contain most of the essential vitamins , and together with the basic seed and grit seem to satisfy all the nutritional needs of the adult Budgerigar . 
For feeding mothers , I decided to add a mixture of soaked groats and canary seed , with the addition of a little wheat germ , which I found was easily obtainable in the form of a " wheat germ " baby food . 
I have maintained this diet since with excellent results . 
The only addition I have made is an occasional slice of orange , of which my birds seem passionately fond . 
Care and Study 
At last the time had arrived to purchase my first stock of birds , and this involved a great deal of study and care . 
There could be no slip up here , or all my preparations and hopes would have been in vain . 
I wanted good birds in every way — in head , type , body shape , spots and stance . 
And I knew full well that I had to stand or fall by my own judgment . 
Well , I "paid my money and made my choice " and time alone will tell what errors of judgment I have made . 
So far , I am reasonably satisfied with the results . 
I have always been fascinated by " Red-eyes , " so I suppose it was only natural that my first birds consisted of two pairs of Lutinos and a beautiful Albino cock . 
( At least I would have no worries about spots . ) 
The Lutinos were of good size and colour , while the Albino had just a faint suffusion of blue on the breast . 
Well-spotted Pairs 
In a strong light , his body and head have a definite pinkish glow , which makes it a most attractive bird . 
From another source I obtained a well-balanced pair of Grey Greens and a pair of Light Greens , all of good type and well spotted . 
My next was a young , untried cock , sired by a Light Green cock out of a Whitewing Cobalt hen . 
He has an ideal stance on the perch , and , with his yellow face , white wings and peacock blue back and tail , he certainly caught the eye . 
Visually he makes the grade . 
After some consideration I also bought his parents , with a view to breeding back to stabilize the strain . 
A nicely matched pair of Cobalts , and a pair of Greys , together with a well-coloured Violet cock were my next buy , and , last of all , I purchased a large Greywing/ Normal White hen . 
How these birds were eventually paired , and the many snags that arose during the first breeding session , will form the basis of my next article . 
This , I hope , will prove that there is sometimes more to be learned from a mistake than one at first realizes . 
junior BIRD LEAGUE Do n't Be Disappointed — When Your Promising Winners are Beaten , says R. F. WARLOW 
MAY I retract from my promise to follow up on other subjects to deal with a matter which I know to be of interest to readers of this page ? 
I am going to write about Border Canaries , but part of the lesson may be applied to other varieties . 
The subject is show birds and , in particular , those that have been amongst the winners . 
Now some fanciers , both young and old , seem to think that once a bird has beaten a number of other birds , providing that it meets the same company again it should go on winning . 
Indeed , good judges have been criticized , without just cause , when past form has been upset . 
And it is true that the opinions of judges sometimes differ , but it is not surprising that some exhibits which are very close together in merit , sometimes change places as the show season progresses . 
Sound Judgment 
Many fanciers are not good judges of their own birds , although they may show sound judgment when assessing the merits of those of other people . 
That , after all , is a human trait which most of you will understand . 
I know , because I have passed through the phase when all the birds in my birdroom appeared to have all the virtues of great winners . 
Apart from looking good in a stock cage , a show bird has to pass an exacting test in which its virtues and its temperament are well and truly tried . 
A bird which has all the necessary physical attributes may fail , either because it has been proven that it can not be trained to show itself off properly , or may be because it does not like shows . 
When I was a young enthusiast I liked nothing better than to listen to more experienced fanciers talking , and I sometimes found it good fun . 
Not only did I find that birds are admired when on show , I also found out that they come in for some searching criticism . 
I was always interested , and I still am today , to note how the opinions of experienced fanciers differ when they are assessing the merits of a bird . 
A really excellent bird usually meets with approval , but there are a few who can not be convinced even by the best . 
Maybe they lack knowledge of what is required or perhaps they are just prejudiced , and , of course , that is a fault that everyone has to guard against . 
Let us look at the Standard of Excellence for the Border Canary which is laid down by the specialist clubs . 
The standard says that the position of the bird should be semi-erect , standing at an angle of 60 degrees , and that the bird should move in a gay and jaunty manner with full poise of the head . 
Out of a total of 100 marks which are to be allocated , 15 are awarded for these attributes , and it has to be remembered that a bird has to earn each one of them when on the judging bench . 
Suffice to say that many birds which have appeared under me have earned very poor markings for carriage and position . 
How About the Future ? 
I wonder whether you have heard it said of a popular winner : " It is good today , but I doubt whether it will win in five or six weeks ' time . " 
An experienced fancier can often make such a prophesy , simply because he has noticed something which is in the course of going wrong . 
Returning to the standard again , it stipulates that the plumage should be close , firm , fine in quality , presenting a smooth , glossy , silken appearance free from frills and toughness . 
In a single word , we refer to these virtues as quality . 
Early in the show season quite a number of birds win which appear to have excellent quality , but the discerning eye can already see that some of the winners are already carrying too much feather . 
Birds continue to add feathers for some time after they appear to have completed the moult , and these additional feathers can change the appearance of what appeared once as a good show bird . 
"TO FINISH THE SEASON " By Ralph Greaves 
THOSE FAMILIAR WORDS will now have appeared on the fixture-card , and the last entry made in the hunting diary for 1960-61 — a season which will go down in history not only as the most open , but as the wettest " since the memory of man runneth not to the contrary . " 
Even before the season started , the land was saturated ; and so it remained throughout , with never a chance of drying out , until the fantastically dry and sunny spell that set in at the beginning of March . 
Fortunately this will obviate cuckoo corn for the farmer ; but as regards foxhunting , there have been days lately when one might as well have expected hounds to be able to run in June , for all the scent there has been . 
Strangely enough , despite all the wet , the earlier part of the season was not as good scenting as might have been expected , scent being literally washed away . 
But from December onwards there came reports from every quarter of sport well above the ordinary , and with the drains full of water , more foxes killed above ground . 
Stoppages from snow and frost have been practically nil . 
But the season has been marred in many countries by disastrous outbreaks of foot-and-mouth , which are always more frequent in a mild season . 
Signs of Wear 
Though always reluctant to leave off , Masters and hunt servants may sometimes regard the finish of the season with mixed feelings , especially when it peters out in a blaze of scentless sunshine . 
Horses and hounds have had a hard time in going like porridge , and exceptionally long days , and even in the bigger establishments there are signs of wear-and-tear . 
Horses , though still sound , may be running up a bit light , and there are probably quite a number of lame hounds , due to cuts from wire or flints . 
On chalky downlands these flints have become an increasing menace , the South and West Wilts having been particular sufferers in this respect . 
The plough has brought the flints to the surface , and they cut like razors , not only into hounds ' feet but horses ' heels . 
Another source of trouble is pig-netting , in which hounds are liable to get hung up and pull their stifles . 
What with casualties , and bitches in hot kennel , a huntsman in a small establishment of up to 25 couple may sometimes have difficulty in drawing a sizeable pack for two days a week . 
But apart from these domestic problems the question of the prolongation of the season depends on agriculture . 
Foxhunting , after all , is a " trespass by courtesy " and since the courtesy is on the part of the farmer , it is the latter 's interests that finally decide the matter . 
Those countries that have a bit of hill or downland are often able to continue operations after the vale is closed . 
The Berkeley , for instance , are usually invited to retire to the slopes of the Cotswolds for a bit of spring hunting . 
Most moorland packs can also remain in session , taking advantage of which , that inveterate foxcatcher , Captain Ronnie Wallace , is accustomed to wind up his season by taking the Heythrop hounds on a visit to Exmoor , while in the Southdown country the killing of a brace or two of May foxes on their open downlands is almost traditional , though in the vale hounds have long ago shut up shop . 
A Favourite Dodge 
One of the most insistent end-of-the-season problems is that of lambing ewes . 
However carefully the Master may arrange his draw , it is always at the back of his mind that hounds may run in their direction , and will have to be stopped . 
One of the favourite dodges in the repertoire of the hunted fox is to run through sheep foul . 
And , in fact , with ewes and lambs all over the place , it is sometimes difficult for the Master to make a day of it . 
Damage , too , is a word that weighs heavily on the hearts of Master , Field Master and Secretary . 
It is fair to say that damage to grassland — or at any rate permanent grass — in the earlier part of the season , even when as wet as this one , is unlikely to be particularly serious . 
It will all wash back with the next rain . 
But no farmer wants to see his fields cut up in February or March , especially if he has just rolled them . 
Even on old pasture with plenty of bottom , the mark is there for the summer , and it will certainly put paid to any leys — and ley farming has made the problem more acute . 
Had the wet weather continued , there is no doubt that most Hunts would have had to stop a good deal earlier than usual . 
Hounds would no doubt have continued to run as though tied to their fox , and we would have started worrying about the prospects for the Point-to-Point . 
But what a mark we should have made ! 
And the faster we galloped , especially downhill , the worse it would have been . 
Even now , after three weeks of sun , there is , as I write , only a top crust on the clays , under which the land is like a glue pot . 
And the damage then will be worse than ever . 
Nor would it take much rain to reduce it once more to the porridge stage . 
In Leicestershire 
Elsewhere , however , as in Leicester , for instance , the land really has dried out , and the arable was mostly in tilth by the middle of March . 
But only a few short weeks ago it was a different story . 
Let's look back and remember .... 
Hounds are scudding over the grass like a covey of grouse before the wind . 
You 've got away on terms and the old horse is pulling a double handful ; you give him his head and let him stride on . 
What else would you do when hounds are running ? 
It 's either go on or go home . 
The ground squelches under foot , but he can go through the dirt all day — and what a feel he does give you ! 
But by Gad , it is deep ! 
Horses in front are throwing up clods of turf in your face , as they go in fetlock deep . 
Better take him up to the front and have first cut at that fence before the others start bashing it . 
The old horse heaves himself out of the mud and jumps it cleanly . 
On you go , in the wake of the flying pack .... 
Well , the hunt has only started , and you 've only crossed the first field . 
Go back the next day and walk round that farm after the Hunt has been over it . 
What would you say if you were the farmer ? 
There is more owed to him than we foxhunters sometimes realise . 
That is the thought with which to finish the season . 
AN EASY-GOING SPRING By Dr. E. A. R. Ennion Equinoxial Tides ... 
Unexpected Finds ... 
Tree-Sparrows and Rock-Sparrows 
THE SHORE is settling down to its everyday ways again . 
We had , three-parts of the way through March , a series of exceptionally high spring tides , even for the equinox . 
Scudding seas and flying sand , sheets of spray sweeping high over cliffs and across roads where I never remember having to drive through spray before , were the order of the day ... 
Bedlam outside as well as in , with curtains flapping and doors banging . 
The waders along the tideline hardly knew whether they were on their heads or on their heels , what with the driven spume , the blinding spray and both wind and water playing tricks and taking them at unexpected speeds and angles . 
Co-ordination of Muscle and Eye 
In the ordinary way a dunlin knows to a T how far a wave is going to ripple up a beach , how long he can wait before turning and running back before it to avoid , as it were , getting his knickers wet . 
A redshank knows exactly when to check his speed to alight at the right spot at the right moment to snatch a titbit sweeping out to sea again on the undertow . 
Such instant co-ordination of muscle and eye is commonplace for them ; swift movements and decisions that , for us , would require the skill of a juggler , the practised fingers of a pianist . 
On it , indeed , depends their livelihood , for the prey they catch is less than a split second slower off the mark . 
So gusty winds and unexpected draughts , freakish ripples and drenching waves must be darned annoying while they last . 
And they lasted , off and on , for days . 
But now it 's over . 
The waves , their fury spent , are plashing lazily on the beach as if they could n't get tough if they tried . 
The wind has dwindled to a gentle breeze . 
There are no white horses , though there is a thin white line wherever wave meets rock along the island shores and , beyond them , a slow heave along the line of the horizon which shows that , away out there , a fair swell must be running , still . 
Like the deep breathing of an athlete resting after his exertions , it takes time for normal rhythm and speed to supervene . 
But in shallower waters near the shore there is only the gentlest rise and fall . 
And there are little groups of waders resting , preening , bathing , stretching wings and legs , and yawning — doing all the jobs there 's been no time to do in the last few days . 
The dunlin and the oystercatchers seem especially content to laze and just enjoy the sunshine and the calm after the storm . 
Turnstones , restless as ever , keep wandering about . 
No sooner does one of them run into the ripples of the burn that spreads across the beach , to bathe , than others tear across the sand to join him , regardless of the fact that most of them have bathed before , not once but ten times , within the last half-hour . 
They ca n't need to — they are like those over-fussy women who must be forever cleaning , cleaning , cleaning when there is n't a speck of dirt about that a man can see . 
And redshanks , as ever at this time of year , too , are chasing each other about . 
It 's the spring in their blood . 
No cock redshank worthy of his coral legs can bear to see another within twenty yards of him without running to drive the other fellow off . 
I 've known them keep this rival-chasing up for hours at a stretch when the chasee could n't , or would n't , get away : no wonder , when you handle them , redshanks are so surprisingly thin and scrawny . 
Wagtails in the Trap 
What with one thing and another we have had little time or opportunity since we returned home to do much trapping , even in the garden : it is our leanest spring in this respect for ten busy years . 
But the other day , while I was digging a trench for some cuttings , my wife looked up and saw half a dozen pied wagtails fluttering in or around the Heligoland trap . 
It was just before dusk and , all unknown to us , this small party of them must have been using the willow bushes beside it for their roost . 
We slipped down and caught three : a beautiful silky-white and ebony cock and two hens , one adult and one a de2butante . 
At least two more were flitting around overhead . 
We shall now know them if we meet them on the beach . 
The trap is kept out of action , in case a bird might find its way in and get imprisoned , but it is possible to " set " it again instantly , and now and then I can not for the life of me resist temptation . 
One such occasion happened a week or so ago when I noticed that the bushes round its mouth were teeming with sparrows . 
We have long since given up ringing them , i.e. , house-sparrows . 
From well over 800 ringed , we had not had a single recovery from beyond a mile radius ! 
But there were starlings among the sparrows ( which provide many and often most interesting records ) and also , unless my eyes and ears were failing me , a good many tree-sparrows . 
Design Discussion In which the Editor extends some arguments contained in last month 's " Showdown " article 
THE idea was expressed in MOTOR SPORT last month that enthusiasts who know about cars and drive them far and fast should eschew " vintage " designs and , by purchasing modern models for their daily motoring , set an example to the car-buying public of the benefits of such technical items as i.r.s. , elimination of the propeller shaft , reduction of greasing points and so on . 
Leaving out cars with front-wheel-drive , in which independent springing of the undriven back wheels is easy to achieve ( or if for some reason it is ignored , merely means that a light axle beam is involved ) and rear-engined cars in which i.r.s. is virtually forced upon the designer , there are the following front-engined/ rear-drive cars the enlightened manufacturers of which provide independent suspension of the back wheels , for maximum riding and cornering efficiency on rough roads and the elimination of judder and heelspin under acceleration which is a shortcoming to which rigid rear axles are prone , particularly when unlocated and attached to the chassis by leaf-springs : — 
Those , then , are the cars you should go for , unless you decide that divorcing the engine from the driven wheels is ridiculous and prefer a car with front-wheel-drive or rear-engine location . 
Personally , based on satisfactory experience of the B.M.C. ADO15 and ADO50 designs , I vote for the former . 
Citroe " n , the World 's most advanced car , has had driven front wheels for nearly 30 years and the DS in its latest , more powerful form is a very fine motor car indeed ; if ever it gets the air-cooled flat-six engine which rumour says its designer always intended for it , it will combine in one vehicle practically everything I find desirable . 
So enamoured have I become by the safety factors inherent in a front-wheel-driven car that I long for the day when Alec Issigonis will trigger off the next B.M.C. offering of that species . 
He , like the Citroe " n designer , has been obliged to use a conventional engine already in production . 
You can not tell me that the bulgy bonnet of the old torsion-bar-sprung Morris Minor was n't intended to protect a flat-four engine , whereas Issigonis was prevailed upon to use an existing side-valve lump of iron when the car went into production . 
And while this talented designer has shown quite outstanding genius in placing another production B.M.C. engine across the front of his Mini to save space within the body envelope , I wonder whether , at all event in his dreams , Issigonis had n't visualised a flat-four , or even a swash-plate power unit , for these brilliantly conceived ( if less conscientiously assembled ) little cars ? 
I suggest this in spite of Issigonis ' statement in the current issue of Road & Track that designing new engines as well as new cars is too big an undertaking for him to adopt it .... 
It remains to be seen whether B.M.C. can achieve the same success with larger versions of the ADO15 layout . 
Personally I believe they will , should their future policy lie in that direction , despite rumours that nothing larger has followed the Minis because there is a limit to how much power can be used with f.w.d. without an excursion into the realms of dangerous handling characteristics , a theory that the Cooper-Minis go some way towards refuting and to which I do not subscribe . 
I would like to see Alec Issigonis , aided by rubber-man Alex Moulton , cock a snoot at Citroe " n with , say , a big trans-engine f.w.d. car powered by a 3-litre 6-cylinder B.M.C. engine , but whether a longer engine could be used across the car without seriously restricting the steering lock is open to conjecture . 
Whether your choice is for front-drive , rear-engine or divorced power unit and axle in a car with all-round independent suspension , there is still great variety to be found in the technical approach of 1962 . 
I was amused recently to read in Lord Montagu 's entertaining journal The Veteran and Vintage Magazine the statement that in 1898 " motor car design was in a state of flux : engines were placed in front , amidships , and at the rear ; some were horizontal , others vertical , while at least one — the Clement-Panhard — was slightly inclined . " 
The position is not so very different over sixty years later and inclination of the engine to secure a low bonnet line , as on the Mercedes-Benz 300SL , B.M.W. 1500 , Chrysler Valiant , and Peugeot 404 , for example ( or a compact boot in the case of the rear-engined Simca 1000 ) has extended to the underfloor engines of the VW 1500 , and the Fiat 500 Giardiniera in which the engine has been turned on its side , while the data on the opposite page show that cylinder disposition has by no means reached standardisation . 
Moreover , N.S.U. have their Wankel rotary engine as an extremely compact power unit of the near-future , and Rover and others are convinced that the gas-turbine will eventually have its day . 
One aspect of engine design not yet exploited by British designers is that of smoothing out the 4-cylinder power unit and improving its durability by providing it with five crankshaft bearings , as adopted by Alpha Romeo , B.M.W. , Chevy 2 , Facellia , Goggomobil , Simca and Volvo . 
Considerable attention is being paid to the reduction of chassis greasing points . 
But while Rover is frequently named as a notable pioneer in this field , the Triumph Herald is all too often ignored , although it , too , can be very quickly serviced ; but in reduction of greasing nipples Fiat and N.S.U. on their smallest models do rather better . 
Only the D.A.F. from Holland and the front-drive Renault R4 from France appear to have eliminated greasing points entirely , but in this country Vauxhall and Rootes have made very considerable progress in reducing the periods between or the amount of servicing necessary , while in America Oldsmobile , Ford , Mercury , Lincoln , Plymouth , Dodge and Chrysler have adopted pre-lubricated chassis bearings that postpone replenishment until 30,000 miles have been run , which , in conjunction with oil changes recommended after 6,000 miles and cooling systems intended to hold their water for some two years , has taken most of the tedium out of the servicing routine . 
So much interest attaches to this aspect of car ownership , especially when service stations are frequently overcrowded and inefficient , and when home-mechanics probably prefer to spend their hours in the garage tuning , if not " souping , " their engines to grovelling about under their cars with the grease-gun , that I append a table showing how a representative collection of cars requires to be greased , from which the disinterested manufacturers who do nothing to relieve servicing tasks stand out like sheep — black sheep , as black as the unfortunate owners or mechanics who have to grease these cars ! 
Incidentally , that the propeller shaft is an anachronism is emphasised by the fact that of only three grease nipples on the Hillman Super Minx and four on the Singer Gazelle , one of the former and two on the latter are on the propeller shaft , while Rover have successfully rid themselves of every nipple save one , again — on the propeller shaft . 
— W. B. VETERAN — EDWARDIAN — VINTAGE A Section Devoted to Old-Car Matters V.S.C.C. SILVERSTONE RACE MEETING ( July 22nd ) 
THIS , the second of these enjoyable fixtures this year , took place in overcast but dry weather and attracted the usual delightfully varied entry , although few " new " old cars appeared . 
The programme commenced with an Inter-Team Relay Race which was contested between 14 one-make teams and a team of Edwardians . 
The race was difficult to follow but in the end jubilation in the Amilcar Six pit indicated that the Tozer , Harding , Lyne team of these fine little supercharged cars had won from the two Frazer Nash teams . 
In spite of modern Weber carburetters , Riseley 's 1931 Aston Martin retired . 
The Austin Seven team comprised Nippy , Ulster and Chummy , and there had even been a complete team of three Gwynne Eights and I noticed that between them they numbered a Wolseley gearbox , a stubby right-hand gear-lever and a long central lever , sure sign that standardisation is a word unknown in vintage circles ! 
The first 5-lap Handicap was led on the last lap by Brogden 's 2-seater 3-litre Bentley , Williamson 's 2-seater 3-litre of this make also passing Rowe 's Ulster Austin that had been out in front for three laps , and was close up on the second Bentley at the finish . 
Another 5-lap Handicap followed , which incorporated the Light Car Handicap . 
The small fry were overtaken by Beavis ' rather nondescript 1928 Riley Nine after three laps , and Blyth 's Austin , with Boyd Carpenter long-tail body , came in second , followed by Smith 's Gwynne Eight , leader of the light cars . 
Abrahams ' racing Singer Junior went well into fourth place . 
Elsworthy ran a 1930 M-type M.G. Midget in original body trim . 
We now drove to Becketts Corner , where Ronald Barker had arrived in Sedgwick 's open Speed Six Bentley , Sedgwick having driven up in the first of the Continental Bentleys dating from 1951 , while a Voisin was circulating as temporary Course Car — variety which makes these V.S.C.C. days so enjoyable . 
Faster stuff came out for yet another 5-lap Handicap , Bergel 's 2.3 Bugatti going very nicely to a popular victory from Michelsen 's i.f.s . 
Frazer Nash " Patience , " Edwards ' big Lagonda third . 
In spite of a tendency to mis-fire , Gahagan 's scratch 2-litre E.R.A. lapped at 72.75 m.p.h . 
A mixed bag from 1908 to 1936 contested the fourth 5-lap Handicap and it was splendid to see Clutton 's great 12-litre Itala quite undismayed by front-braked " moderns , " so that it came home a thunderous second behind Cook 's little Ulster Austin , making fastest lap , into the bargain , at 61.2 m.p.h . 
Third place was secured by Marsh 's Austin . 
Poor Liston-Young could get nowhere from scratch in his Fiat Balilla and space helmet , and Zeuner , holding his Brescia Bugatti 's gear-lever in gear , was lapped by Cook . 
Kain drove a neat Type 40 Bugatti . 
So to the race which is the purpose of this meeting , the 50-km . 
Boulogne Trophy Scratch Race . 
This was a splendid event . 
Margulies built up a growing lead in his 3-litre Maserati , Hull 's 2-litre E.R.A. second , ahead of the Hon. Peter Lindsay and Murray in their 1 1/2-litre E.R.A.s . 
As the race settled down Murray 's green E.R.A. fell back and Margulies , Hull and Lindsay were out ahead of the E.R.A.s of Waller and Brown . 
Then on lap nine the big Maserati retired , as did Waller , so the order was Hull , Lindsay , Brown , Gahagan and Murray , all in E.R.A.s , followed by Mudd 's Maserati which , although mis-firing , was keeping ahead of Husband 's blown Talbot , about which Goodhew 's E.R.A.-Delage could do nothing at all . 
Cottam 's E.R.A. was pursuing this group , followed by McDonald 's 4 1/2-litre Bentley that eventually took the Vintage Award . 
Lindsay was driving " Remus " with real fire and a lap later passed Hull . 
Gahagan , too , was coming round fast in his 2-litre E.R.A. , with occasional glances at his off-side rear wheel , and on lap 13 he was third , having passed Brown . 
Finally , as a fast , eventful race ran its course Mudd got ahead of Murray , the sc . 
Talbot continuing to hold off the E.R.A.-Delage — how unpredictable vintage racing is ! 
Margulies lapped fastest , at 80.62 m.p.h. , before retiring . 
Unfortunately Philip Mann 's 1922 Strasbourg Sunbeam had suffered a serious fracture of the top of the cylinder block in practice and spent the race on its trailer behind a Land Rover . 
The races now reverted to 5-lappers , Begley 's Frazer Nash shaking off Holford 's Singer Nine and Harris ' Austin to win the fifth , in which Michael , sawing at the wheel of his lowered , ex-Goodhew 4 1/2-litre Lagonda , made fastest lap , at 68.1 m.p.h . 
Hull , as he often does in short races , won the Scratch event , from Day , whose E.R.A. sounded off form , Waller third , Gahagan fourth , after Lindsay started badly and fell back after a spin . 
Hull lapped at 78.23 m.p.h . 
Bradley 's well-known 4 1/2-litre Bentley won another of the Handicaps from Morton 's very fierce 3-carburetter 4 1/2-litre Bentley and Morley 's drastically lowered 4 1/2-litre Bentley with straight-tooth back axle and castors instead of front wheels , the classes going to Heap 's Riley , Ashley 's very rapid Frazer Nash and Footitt 's so very worthwhile A.C.-G.N . 
TELEFIGHT NEWS by RON OLVER Walker And Pollard TV Heroes 
BEING on TV did n't do the London amateurs much good against South Poland , did it ? 
The score was 3-1 in our favour when we came on the air but then it became 3-4 , only for heavyweight Billy Walker to level it up . 
This was the only bout to end inside the distance , and once again Billy revealed his potential as one of our best heavyweight bets for the future . 
This was the first representative match to be televised from London this season , and contained all the usual controversies over decisions and refereeing . 
In the TV sessions there were two disputed verdicts , and as far as it is possible to judge through this medium Johnny Caiger was a trifle unlucky and Dennis Pollard , in spite of his terrific performance , was beaten by a better man . 
With regard to the refereeing , the Polish official seemed to go out of his way to stop the exchanges on the slightest pretext when the action was getting exciting . 
It must have been most frustrating to the boxers , and of course just as annoying to the spectators . 
Rules are rules , but it is the interpretation that is important . 
A fussy referee can ruin a bout . 
There were southpaws galore in the Polish team . 
We saw three on TV and I understand there were at least two more . 
Their national team is in the process of re-building and the accent is now on youth . 
Best Boxer 
Even so , I thought that Pietrzykowski , veteran of the side , was the best boxer on view in our 60-minute TV session . 
Yet he was n't included in this year 's European Championships . 
Why not ? 
Well , Polish coach Felix Stam , referring to the omission of such stars as Pietrzykowski , Adamski , Drogosz and Pazdior in Belgrade , declared — 
"They are too old . 
It is no use keeping them in the team just for the chance of winning here . 
We are preparing for 1964 ( the Olympic Games ) , and it is no use starting to build up in 1963 . " 
That 's common sense of course , but Pietrzykowski ( why was n't he called " Smith " ) is still boxing well . 
He will be 32 in 1964 , but as Archie Moore would say " It 's your ability , not your age , that counts . " 
Poland has had a fine run of successes during the past three years . 
In the 1959 European Championships they had three Gold Medals through the old firm of Drogosz , Adamski and Pietrzykowski . 
Also Silver Medals through Dampe and Walasek , and a Bronze Medal through Jedrzewski . 
In the Olympics of the following year lightweight Pazdior won a Gold Medal ; Adamski , Walasek and Pietrzykowski gained Silver Medals ; Bendig , Kasprzyk and Drogosz won Bronze Medals . 
So to this year 's European Championships , when Poland omitted some of their stars in favour of younger men . 
Yet they did n't do at all badly . 
Walasek won a Gold Medal , Gutman was bantam finalist ( he outpointed Johnny Head in a featherweight bout last week ) and three boxers reached the semi-finals , Kasprzyk , Jozefowicz and Gugniewicz . 
We must remember that Iron Curtain countries have the advantage of keeping their lads together as " amateurs " throughout their careers . 
How can Britain think about building a team for 1964 when the stars invariably turn professional . 
One only has to consider Britain 's team in last year 's Olympics . 
Those who have since turned pro are flyweight Danny Lee , featherweight Phil Lundgren , light-welter Bobby Kelsey , light-middle Willie Fisher and cruiser Johnny Ould . 
And now comes the news that Frankie Taylor is turning pro shortly . 
Heavyweight Dave Thomas and middle Roy Addison have retired , leaving only Dick McTaggart and Jim Lloyd . 
So it looks like almost a complete new British team for the 1964 Games , whereas the Iron Curtain countries will be able to call upon their established stars as usual . 
One of our best men at the moment is Billy Walker , but I 'll bet that Billy will be a professional long before then . 
And who can blame him ? 
Will To Win 
One of those who looks like going places is cruiserweight Dennis Pollard , who fought like a tiger against Pietrzykowski . 
Dennis has the will to win , and that 's exactly what we want in these representative matches . 
He was not bothered by his opponent 's reputation — simply went into the attack , and kept attacking . 
No wonder the crowd rose to Pollard and on that form he would assuredly have beaten anyone less experienced than the triple European champion . 
We shall now look forward to the Great Britain v. America match , part of which will be televised by the BBC next Thursday . 
No doubt we shall have the opportunity of seeing Walker and Pollard in action again then . 
Tomorrow 's Grandstand bout features Sugar Ray Robinson against Denny Moyer , which Robinson won on points . 
There is absolutely nothing that the average fight fan does not know about Robinson , but here are the statistical details in his chequered career . 
SUGAR RAY ROBINSON . 
Born Detroit May 3 , 1920 . 
Turned pro in 1940 , gaining 40 straight wins before losing to Jake LaMotta in 1943 . 
Signed to meet Marty Servo for the World 's welter crown on August 10 , 1946 , but the bout was twice postponed and eventually Servo retired . 
Robinson was then matched with Tommy Bell , and won on points on December 20 , 1946 . 
On February 14 , 1951 , Robinson kayoed Jake LaMotta to win the world 's middleweight crown , and gave up his welter title . 
Ray lost the middleweight championship to Randolph Turpin in 1951 , regained it the same year . 
In 1952 he was kayoed by Joey Maxim in a world 's cruiserweight title bout , and announced his retirement from the ring in December of that year . 
Came back in 1955 and won the world 's middleweight title from Carl Olson . 
Successfully defended it against Olson in 1956 , lost it to Gene Fullmer in 1957 , regaining it in the same year . 
Lost to Carmen Basilio in 1957 , regaining it from Basilio in 1958 . 
Lost it to Paul Pender in 1960 , and was beaten again by Pender in a return . 
Has had two shots at Gene Fullmer 's NBA crown , in 1960 ( a draw ) and last March ( lost on points ) . 
Only previous bouts this year — lost to Fullmer and outpointed Wilf Greaves . 
OVERALL RECORD . 
Bouts 158 , Won 145 , Drawn 3 , Lost 9 , No Decision 1 . 
DENNY MOYER . 
Born Portland August 8 , 1939 . 
French-Irish parentage . 
As an amateur won the American AAU welter title in 1957 . 
Comes from a fighting family . 
Father Harry was a pro , brother Phil turned pro on the same date as Denny August 17 , 1957 . 
Uncle Tommy was a good amateur and is now a promoter in Portland , having staged many of Denny 's fights . 
Won 20 straight bouts , then was matched with Don Jordan for the latter 's world welter crown . 
Lost on points in his home-town . 
Bout was promoted by his uncle . 
Has beaten many notable fighters , like former world 's champions Paddy DeMarco , Tony DeMarco , Virgil Akins , Johnny Saxton and Emile Griffith . 
Has also defeated the present World 's welter champ Benny Paret . 
Is now a middleweight , and rated by Boxing News as the world 's No. 10 . 
Robinson holds down the No. 4 spot . 
This year 's record — outpointed Willie Morton , Charley Scott and Dulio Nunez . 
Outpointed by Jorge Fernandez and Nunez . 
OVERALL RECORD . 
Bouts 35 , Won 29 , Lost 6 . 
Do n't forget to watch Sportsview next Wednesday for film coverage of the John Caldwell-Alphonse Halimi world 's bantam title fight . 
And a running commentary on this contest will be given next Tuesday evening in the Light Programme . 
Next live pro item will be the Maurice Cullen-Guy Gracia bout from Newcastle on November 13 . 
Next for Grandstand : 
Oct. 28 Sugar Ray Robinson v. Denny Moyer . 
Nov. 4 Teddy Wright v. Farid Salim . 
Nov. 11 Alejandro Lavorante v. Billy Hunter . 
Nov. 18 Carlos Ortiz v. Paolo Rosi . 
Sports Editor Laurie Higgins and Schools ABA Secretary Pat Martin combine on October 30 for another of ITA 's interesting boxing instructional series in " Seeing Sport " . 
BROWN KEEPS TITLE Champion Floors Somodio Twice To Take Unanimous Verdict 
JOE BROWN , 35-year-old American holder of the World 's lightweight crown , kept his title at Quezon City , Manila , last Saturday , with an easy points verdict over 15 rounds against Filipino Bert Somodio . 
Brown floored his man twice , for a no-count in the fifth and for " nine " in the eleventh . 
It was a unanimous decision . 
This was Brown 's tenth successful title defence . 
A capacity crowd of around 30,000 in the Areneta Coliseum gave their local favourite Somodio plenty of vocal support , but although he started well and put in a good finish there could be no doubt of Brown 's superiority . 
There was very little positive action in the first four rounds , with Brown content to let his opponent force the pace . 
In the fourth , particularly , Somodio scored with hard rights to the mid-section . 
Then the champ decided that he had learned enough about his man to take the offensive , and opened up with a series of two-handed attacks , culminating in a right to the jaw that put Somodio down on one knee . 
The 27-year-old Filipino got up immediately but was obviously shaken . 
Then in the seventh Brown again shook his man with a right cross and opened up a cut on his opponent 's left eye . 
Brown kept on top with clever boxing and ringcraft , and in the eleventh caught Somodio with a right-left to the paw that put him down again . 
This had its effect on the Filipino , who slowed considerably in the next two or three rounds . 
Brown used his full repertoire of punches , jabbing and uppercutting to good effect , and was well on top now . 
Somodio went down slowly in a sort of delayed-action fall , taking several backward steps before going to the canvas near the ropes . 
But somehow he struggled up at " nine , " although all the fight had been taken out of him now . 
The Filipino tried hard to put in a storming finish , but his attacks were nearly all neatly countered by the clever champion . 
Both men received a fine ovation from an enthusiastic crowd . 
Brown has held his crown since August 1956 , when he outpointed Wallace " Bud " Smith . 
But he still seem reluctant to meet Carlos Ortiz , one-time winner over Dave Charnley , and like the latter , a leading contender for Joe 's title . 
Big Chance For Wemhoener 
NO shortage of work in Germany , writes GERRY MANN . 
Tonight there are top shows at Munich and Hamburg . 
At the former venue two near-veterans in Dieter Wemhoener and Helmut Bull battle it out for the vacant German cruiser crown . 
At the latter Karl " The Great " Mildenberger tackles American Wayne Bethea . 
Then on November 11 comes the Erich Schoeppner v. Hans Kalbfell clash for the former 's German heavyweight title , and in Frankfurt on November 24 Mildenberger is likely to top the bill . 
Wemhoener has always boxed in the shadow of his more famous stablemate Gustav Scholz , and at the age of 31 must have been thinking that his big chance had gone by . 
But the vacating of the cruiser crown by Erich Schoeppner has left the door open for Wemhoener or his 30-year-old opponent Helmut Ball to annex the national title . 
Two years ago Wemhoener went to Milan and outpointed Italian cruiser Giulio Rinaldi on his own doorstep . 
Rinaldi went on to fight for the World 's title . 
Why manager Fritz Gretzschel did n't cash in on this victory and challenge Schoeppner right then must remain a mystery . 
Instead Dieter went on his victorious way against Continental opposition , slipping only twice — when he was kayoed by Lennart Risberg in Stockholm last November and this year when he was held to a draw by Frenchman Diouf . 
Helmut Ball , with American experience , got a shot at Schoeppner instead and was narrowly outpointed . 
He can not match Wemhoener for skill , but punches hard enough to put away any cruiser in Europe . 
This fight looks like being the survival of the fittest , but we 'll go along with Wemhoener on account of his superior skill . 
In the main support heavyweight Ulli Nitzschke tackles American Frankie Daniels in a return ( Daniels won last time on points ) and lightweight champion Conny Rudhof opposes Zykaris Taki . 
"The time has come , " the Walrus said , " To talk of many things 
Of shoes and ships and sealing wax 
Of cabbages — and Kings " 
NEXT year we shall see another America 's Cup contest . 
This time it will be Australia who will be making her first challenge . 
There were strong rumours that the Americans would not build a new defender and that they would rely upon Stephen 's designed Columbia , perhaps improved , and Easterner which has been much improved and has had twelve hundred pounds taken out of her in the form of cabin fittings and needless furniture . 
This has allowed about six hundred pounds of lead to be added to her keel . 
Now I hear that Easterner 's designer Ray Hunt has been commissioned to design a new potential defender . 
She will be built at Graves Yard in Marblehead , Mass. , next door to Ted Hood 's sail loft . 
The combination is a good one and the new boat will be much fancied . 
My American informant remarks that the trials next summer will be better than the actual races for the cup and this was true of the last challenge . 
He ends up by saying : 
" Unless the Aussies have shaved the rules so closely that they squeak I think we might win again . " 
I hear that the Red Duster Syndicate has ordered a 12-metre to Arthur Robb 's design from Groves & Guttridge of Cowes . 
It will be a new venture on the part of this firm to build a twelve . 
No information has been published as to the result of the extensive tests made for this syndicate in the Saunders Roe tank . 
They have been going on for a long time and much money has been spent . 
From what I can discover the general conclusion , after much experimenting in tanks , is that it is difficult to improve much upon the performance of hulls . 
It is , I think , generally accepted that there is still a considerable margin for a breakthrough in the motive power — sails . 
As I said last month , no one would dream of using cotton sails for racing to-day and there is still probably room for improvement upon Terylene rather by processing it or by using some form of sheer plastic . 
Perhaps one answer may be the Ratsey " Venturi " spinnaker . 
The vents are claimed to direct a strong downward thrust of air just forward of the sail giving the spinnaker increased lift and driving power . 
The idea is based on experience with aeronautical parachutes and will be shown by Ratsey and Lapthorn Inc. at the 1962 National Motorboat Show in New York . 
The Australian challenger designed by Alan Payne is making good progress at Lars Halvorsen and Sons ' yard on the Parramatta River at Ryde , Sydney . 
She is expected to be in commission in December and her first job will be trials against Vim . 
The Australians have realistically decided that unless she can beat Vim there is no use sending her to the States . 
Allowing for a period of tuning they should know the ability of their new unnamed 12 by February . 
She will probably leave Sydney during May , 1962 , as deck cargo and she has to be at the starting line off Newport , Rhode Island , on September 15 . 
Vim will return to the States in the same way at about the same time . 
The challenger will have a light alloy mast built from American components . 
Her sails will be made in Sydney from imported synthetic sailcloth by Peter Cole and Joe Pearce . 
The materials for them will probably also come from America . 
Two eleven-man teams have been trained in Vim but they have lacked the stimulus of competition and it occurs to me that it would have been a nice gesture to have shipped Sceptre to Australia at the close of her successful season . 
Sceptre 's recent successes have led some people to make adverse comments about her crew in the America 's Cup races but it must be remembered that in Evaine she only had a trial horse and not a contender for the challenge while the Americans enjoyed the fiercest competition in their trials to select their defender . 
Her arrival in Sydney in the autumn , or shall we say Sydney 's spring , would have put new life into the training of the two crews . 
The Australian syndicate led by Sir Frank Packer are reputed to be spending £250,000 on their Cup bid . 
Let us hope that Alan Payne , the builders , sailmakers and crew can pull something out of the bag , for in many ways the dice are inevitably loaded against them . 
DISPLACED by the rebuilding programme of the Royal Thames Yacht Club , the International Yacht Racing Union Annual Conference took place in the Naval and Military Club , colloquially known , on account of the notices on its entrance , as the In and Out . 
The conference opened on Monday , October 30 , and ended on Friday , November 3 , with the general assembly of the Union which takes place once every three years and which is attended by representatives from all member nations . 
In fact 27 delegates took their seats , some of whom represented more than one country and these delegates were assisted by their advisers . 
When one considers that the permanent committee and all the sub-committees are similarly helped by advisers one gets some idea of the formidable body of international yachtsmen who descend upon London for this occasion . 
There are 41 member countries and I should say that this international meeting is an outstanding example of how international affairs can be conducted in harmony . 
Yachtsmen , it seems , even if they do not agree , can disagree gracefully and I think that much of the success of these annual meetings is due to the tactful and impartial chairmanship of Peter Scott , the President , backed by Harry Morgan ( U.S.A. ) and Jan Loeff ( Netherlands ) as Vice-Presidents , and by the knowledge and experience of the Hon. President , King Olav 5 of Norway . 
Over the years I have watched the members of the permanent committee and the sub-committees shaking down together in the realization that each knows his job , and each may well have his idiosyncrasies . 
While there is continual change and a few new faces every year , they become absorbed into the main body of the Union and known by their Christian names , and there are a few , for instance , who would dream of addressing the Count of Caria as anything but Bernardo . 
As usual , delegates were entertained to dinner by the Royal Yachting Association and a very pleasant affair it was , if a little cramped in its temporary quarters . 
There was the usual cocktail party at the Royal Ocean Racing Club , and Group Captain Haylock 's theatre party which includes the wives . 
It seems that the latter come over mainly for the purpose of going to our theatres in the evenings and indulging in the most glorious shopping spree imaginable by day , sometimes admirably helped by their daughters . 
AT a recent meeting , the Planning Committee of the Hampshire County Council approved , with certain safeguards , the building of a conventional power station by the Central Electricity Generating Board at Fawley between the Fawley Oil Refinery and Calshot . 
The power station will be three times the size of that at Marchwood , at the head of Southampton Water . 
It is thus fairly certain that with its 600ft chimney it will be visible from all parts of the Solent . 
Unlike an oil refinery one can not grumble much about the fumes , smell and industrial dirt , generally , for little comes out of the chimney except possibly invisible gasses . 
Cooling water in vast quantities will be discharged into Southampton Water but except for being warmed it will be unchanged . 
What we can and do object to , however carefully "landscaped " and however beautifully designed this power station may be , is the fact that we shall be able to see it from all parts of the Solent . 
This may seem a slight objection but it is a valid one . 
It is necessary to man , and an amenity , to be able to look at unspoilt nature and this , to a large extent , he can still do on the Solent although it is fortuitous and can not be attributed to anything except lack of development before 1945 . 
We have sacrificed part of this precious amenity already for we can see the flames and chimneys of Fawley over the trees of the New Forest practically anywhere in the West Solent . 
They are , however , not particularly obtrusive , but there will be no hiding a great , gloomy power station . 
It will brood over the Solent . 
It is particularly important that when you have only one little stretch of sheltered water that is a recreational area for literally millions of people that it should not be brooded over by anything , whatever it is . 
I will freely admit that the old Calshot air station is no thing of beauty , it is a pity it ever happened , but the buildings are not particularly large and as one proceeds west down the Solent it is soon unnoticeable . 
Not so this great power station . 
We shall probably be able to see it from beyond the Needles , certainly the chimney will be visible for miles further down the Channel . 
People have argued that one does not matter : this is the last : there is still a lot left : that we should get used to it . 
We do n't agree with any of these comforting thoughts . 
With the power station established , greedy hands will be stretched out for something more , and if we do not jealously guard every inch of the Solent we shall have power stations , oil refineries , factories and industry leapfrogging down the banks until , what shall we have left ? 
An industrial drain like the London river . 
Who wants to go sailing on dirty water ? 
Yes , the water will be dirty all right . 
These are some of the things which we should ponder over , but not waste too much time thinking about . 
While I sympathize with the Central Electricity Generating Board , for nobody wants either their power stations or their pylons , yachtsmen of today have a duty to those of future generations . 
FOR some time I have been drawing attention to the need for the Royal Yachting Association to take under its wing marine motoring . 
I now hear that Donald Campbell and Major John Abraham , Commodore of the Royal Motor Yacht Club , have registered the British Power Boat Association after considerable preparatory work . 
Since then discussions have taken place between Major Abraham and members of the General Purposes Committee of the Royal Yachting Association and there is every hope that motor yachting and motorboat racing and even waterski-ing will eventually be brought under the R.Y.A. umbrella . 
On November 13 Major Abraham called a meeting of interested parties on the motor side , but certain of the motorboat racing fraternity felt that they might be swallowed lock , stock and barrel by a powerful and established R.Y.A. I can assure them that their fears are groundless . 
They will be on the same footing as dinghy racing or for that matter any other branch of the sport . 
A Steering Committee of the motorboat side has been formed to undertake further discussions with the Royal Yachting Association and let us hope that before the new season opens we shall see the sport of motorboating in all its branches firmly ensconced in the Royal Yachting Association organization , members , as it were , of the Commonwealth of Yachting . 
WITHOUT doubt a situation has now been reached on the South Coast where , unless something is done soon , yachting and yachtbuilding will be severely restricted because there will be nowhere to keep the yachts , and orders are , in many instances , either being cancelled or conditional upon a mooring being available . 
In Dartmouth a Marina has already been opened and , this , in a part of the world where the congestion was nothing like that around the Solent . 
It seems to be going well and this may encourage others to push on with their plans in a number of places such as Poole , Bournemouth , Lymington , Hamble and Portsmouth on the Solent , two places on Chichester Harbour and in Newhaven and Swanage . 
WINES to meet a stranger 
To choose wines or cordials for food ranging from Moussaka to Mangoes and Artichokes to Uglies poses something of a problem . 
On the other hand , the dishes built upon these unusual fruits and vegetables have a common characteristic . 
The main course dishes are strongly flavoured and the fruits have a pleasant astringency behind their sweetness . 
This means that one should avoid choosing wines that are very dry or of delicate flavour . 
Sparkling wines do not really fit into this picture , but strong , virile wines do . 
A full-bodied wine for the main course , and a sweet wine for the fruits would be a good general rule . 
One would do well to consider the wines of Greece to match the moussaka . 
The special one , of course , is Retsina , a white wine matured in resinated casks . 
I came to love it from drinking it in the war years , but the fact must be faced , it is an acquired taste . 
My wife contends that it tastes of ping-pong balls . 
It might be a good thing to have a bottle or two for the initiated , and stick to a white dry Samos for the majority . 
The price of both is about 8s. 6d. to 9s. per bottle . 
They should be served cold but not over-chilled . 
A good red alternative comes from Hungary — Egri Bikaver — the dark wine from Eger known as Bull 's Blood . 
It costs about 10s. 6d. per bottle . 
If you want something really strong , with a high alcoholic content , Yugoslavia produces Dinjac , but it is not a wine for weak heads ! 
It costs about 8s. 9d. per bottle . 
There are also Spanish and Portuguese wines that go well with strongly flavoured foods . 
The robust Spanish Chablis , the Rioja Burgundy , and the Portuguese Vila Real Tinto are examples , all costing about 7s. 6d. per bottle . 
Russian wines are now on the market , and the red Mukuzani No. 4 would fit this menu well . 
It costs about the same as the Spanish wines . 
Now for the wines to go with the fruit dishes . 
For those who like a really sweet wine there is what is often called the Sauterne of the Perigord : Monbazillac , costing from 8s. to 10s. per bottle . 
Visitors to Vienna will perhaps remember the ancient cellars at Gumpoldskirchner — the home of the fine Rotgipfler Auslese . 
This costs about 15s. 6d. per bottle . 
Or to return to Greece , there is the famous Mavrodaphne — the Italians drink a lot of it , and you may have met it in Vienna . 
An alternative is to leave the " straight " wines out of the planning and go for some kind of a cup . 
Pride of Oporto is a pleasant and simple one . 
To produce about thirty glasses take one bottle of tawny port , half a gill of Orange Curac6ao , one lemon , and a siphon of soda . 
Squeeze the juice of the lemon into a bowl , adding the port and Curac6ao , then slicing the lemon into it . 
Let it stand for about 20 minutes and then serve the glasses about two-thirds full of the mixture , topping up with iced soda water . 
It is always a good thing to have a jug of non-alcoholic cup about the place . 
A simple and pleasant one can be made by mixing lemon and orange cordial in the ratio of two of lemon to one of orange . 
Before adding water , a slice of lemon and orange and a lump or two of ice , put in a couple of teaspoonfuls of " Ribena . " 
The colour combination is delightful and it enhances the flavour . 
Finally , there is the ape2ritif , if one is needed . 
If you want to give your friends something out of the ordinary , costing less than 20s. per bottle , there is Pineau Imperial des Charentes , from the Cognac region . 
Alternatively , there is the more expensive — about 40s. per bottle — plum brandy from Yugoslavia and Hungary — Slivovitz . 
Even quite a small glass makes a party go . 
And if there is any left it is equally good as a liqueur . 
If by any chance you have difficulty in finding the drinks I have mentioned , write to Woman 's Journal who will tell you where they may be bought . 
JOHN BAKER WHITE Wines worth singing for 
THERE has never been a time when wines from so many different countries were available in Britain . 
This means that there is a tremendous field for experiment , and having a lot of fun without spending too much . 
So , in choosing wines for the four suppers , I have tried to be original and , except for the Supper Party wines , inexpensive , despite recent increases in price . 
Supper Party . 
Here perhaps one can spread one 's wings a little and forget the family budget . 
As an ape2ritif serve , chilled , a wonderful wine that comes from the Jura — namely the 1949 Cha5teau-Chalon . 
It is the rarest wine in France , and is matured for seven years before bottling . 
A bottle will cost you about 35s. but it will be a wonderful experience for your guests . 
With the food I think a Portuguese Mateus Rose2 , the pale pink wine with natural sparkle , would be fun . 
It must , of course , be chilled , and costs about 13s. to 14s. a flask . 
A very pleasant alternative would be a Franconian Steinwein , also in flasks known as Boxbeutels , and costing about 17s. 6d . 
It is a fairly safe bet that one of the guests will want to take the empty flask home ; they make delightful lamp bases . 
If you feel that the Cha5teau-Chalon is beyond your pocket you could cut out the ape2ritif and serve a glass of light non-vintage port with the Boston Cream Pie ; or perhaps even better , an inexpensive dessert wine from Cyprus called Commandaria . 
It has been made since the crusades . 
Family Sit-Down Supper . 
The mackerel is a splendid fish that deserves good treatment , and I would be inclined to accentuate the Italian accent of the main course , serving before dinner an Italian ape2ritif that has only just come on to the British market . 
Its name is Riccadonna Bitter Vermouth , a blend of herbs with fortified wines from Canelli . 
The bottle should be iced and a twist of lemon put in each glass . 
We do not drink as much Italian white wine as we might in Britain , so I would choose a Soave Di Verona , or if you have difficulty in finding it , the sweeter Orvieto . 
Both should cost under 10s. per bottle . 
With the hot souffle2 a glass of that fine but neglected wine Marsala would go admirably . 
When I was young the Royal Navy used to drink it before lunch instead of gin but nowadays most people relegate it to the kitchen , which is a pity . 
I would choose a medium-rich wine like Corona , costing about 12s. per bottle . 
If you can find a Malaga , then try that . 
Supper Round The Fire . 
Quite a few people hold to the view that it is a waste of wine to drink it with curry . 
I do not agree , but obviously as curry is made from spices the wine must be full-blooded to "live " with it . 
This meal has a big fruit content , so one must look also for a fruity wine . 
Before supper a glass of Madeira would go well , especially if it is a Verdelho or an Old Rich Bual . 
And with the meal itself ? 
I have mentioned the red wines of Chile before , and I do so again , because I think the Santa Rita or Cabernet would match this food . 
A good alternative would be one of the Australian Burgundies , which are sound and dependable : after all the Australians have been making wine for over a hundred years and send vine specialists all over the world . 
None of these wines should cost much over 8s. per bottle , but do n't roast them in front of the fire . 
Let them "breathe " for a few hours in the room , taking up its temperature . 
After-Theatre Supper . 
It is a mistake to drink too heavy a wine before going to bed , and anyway the composition of this meal demands both lightness and flavour . 
A light , young Beaujolais would go well , all the better if it was chilled . 
In this country we raise our hands in horror at the thought of chilling red wine , but with some it is both justifiable and desirable . 
A good alternative would be a white Alsatian , such as the Sylvaner costing about 10s. or the drier Riesling , which is a bit dearer . 
Another alternative would be a South African medium dry white Paarl Amber , costing about 8s . 
The Cape has been producing wine for a long , long time and this " hock " is good value , and will not be heavy . 
If you want a " warmer " at the end of the meal , what about a glass of Cherry Brandy ? 
John Baker White WINES with Star Attraction 
NOVEMBER is the first month of real Winter , liable to give us a sharp nip as a reminder of what lies ahead . 
As it can produce gales , icy winds , frozen roads , and fog we should choose our drinks on the principle of " something to keep the cold out . " 
As a Winter surprise let me suggest an original cocktail . 
Into a champagne glass put a lump of sugar , an eggspoonful of brandy , and on the sugar literally one drop of angostura bitters . 
Fill up with an iced sparkling white wine from Australia . 
Gramp 's Barossa Dry Pearl , costing about 15s. per bottle , or Rose Pearl , at the same price , do the job jolly well . 
When you " top-up " there is no need to put in any more sugar or brandy . 
Before I consider the other dishes I must come on to the Crown of Lamb , for it is a splendid dish deserving a splendid wine . 
Recently in our own house we gave it to an internationally famous restaurateur , and served it with a 1949 Mouton Cadet . 
This is pretty hard to come by so look for a 1955 Cha5teau Beychevelle . 
This will cost about 17s. 6d. per bottle . 
If you prefer a Burgundy try a 1955 Charmes Chambertin costing round about £1 . 
The Roast Turkey , too , demands special attention , and as it has walnut stuffing a richly flavoured wine would be my choice . 
The 1955 Louis Jadot Chevalier Montrachet " Les Demoiselles " is an excellent White Burgundy , and worth all of the 30s. you may have to pay for it . 
If this looks like putting your party budget out of gear , Bouchard Pe3re et Fils 1955 Puligny-Montracet is a fine wine , costing a little over £1 per bottle . 
For the Caneton aux Cerises , some experts might quarrel with my choice , a Cristal Dry Sparkling White Burgundy , costing about 16s. 6d. per bottle . 
That great judge of wines , the late Professor Saintsbury , always had high praise for this wine . 
Should you be averse to sparkling wines I have washed down many a plump duckling from the meadows of the Loire with a Muscadet , costing about 12s. , or a Puilly Blanc-Fume2 , costing perhaps 16s. 6d . 
These wines would , in my opinion , go well with the Poulet as well . 
Bacon with brandied peaches seems to demand one of the vintage ciders rather than a wine . 
The one I know best is the Church Farm cider from Smarden in Kent , costing 6s. 6d. per bottle . 
I have also enjoyed Bulmers Strongbow , Old Vathouse , which is not so strong and consequently cheaper . 
It is worth remembering that vintage ciders — Merrydown from Horam is another of them — are stronger than many wines . 
And a dessert wine to go with the sweets ? 
If you want to have a bit of fun , follow Commander Anthony Hogg 's advice . 
Decant a bottle of Barone Ricasoli 's 1953 estate-bottled Vin Santo Brolio , and ask your wine-conscious guests to tell you where it comes from . 
It will cost you about 17s. a bottle . 
If the night is cold you may feel like giving your guests a hot Punch . 
With me The Bishop remains a firm favourite . 
For 20 people you need : 
2 lemons and cloves 
1 quart of Australian Gramp 's Orlando Ruby dessert wine , costing 11s. 6d. per bottle 
1 pint boiling water 
mixed spices 
2 oz. lump sugar Oyster Forcemeat 
12 oysters , cooked or 
1 small tin oysters 
1 oz. finely chopped suet 
2 eggs 
6 oz. breadcrumbs 
Salt and pepper 
2 tablesp. cream 
Mix the breadcrumbs with the suet , add the liquor from the oysters , a good sprinkling of salt and pepper , the cream and the oysters cut in small pieces . 
Mix well with the beaten eggs . 
Stir in a double saucepan over boiling water for 5 mins . 
Leave until cold , then use . 
Chestnut Stuffing 
2 lb. chestnuts 
1/2 pt. water 
2 oz. butter 
Salt and pepper 
Slit each chestnut and roast them for 20 mins. in a moderate oven . 
Then allow to cool a little and remove outer husk and inner skin , put in a saucepan and just cover with water and simmer till soft and floury . 
Be careful that they do not boil dry and catch . 
Put through a fine moulin or sieve , stir in butter and seasoning and stuff breast of turkey . 
Sausage Forcemeat 
1 lb. pork sausages or 
1 lb. pork sausage meat 
2 tablesp. fine breadcrumbs 
1 tablesp. stock or gravy 
1 teasp. finely chopped fresh herbs or good pinch of dried ones 
1 finely chopped onion 
Remove the skin from the sausages . 
Mix thoroughly with the other ingredients , moisten with the stock and use . 
Celery Stuffing 
1/2 lb. finely chopped celery 
4 oz. shredded suet 
1 tablesp. chopped parsley 
grated rind of 1/2 lemon 
1 finely chopped onion 
2 eggs 
1/2 lb. breadcrumbs 
2 oz. ham 
Good pinch of dried mixed herbs 
Salt and pepper 
Use white heart of celery . 
Mix all the dry ingredients together and blend with the well-beaten eggs . 
Use any two or three . 
If you intend to serve a different bird or two smaller birds : Duck : Mixed Herb Forcemeat with 2 oz. finely chopped onion and 1 teasp. sage instead of mixed herbs . 
Pheasant or Chicken : Any one or two stuffings . 
Goose : As duck with the oyster or celery stuffing in addition . 
Having stuffed and sewn up turkey , place him on a large baking tray . 
Put 2 rashers of bacon fat over the breast . 
Spread 1/4 lb. softened margarine or cooking fat fairly thickly all over the rest of him , and cover him with aluminium cooking foil , pressing it well over him . 
On Christmas Day , allow 15 mins. to the pound , so that a 10-lb. bird will take 2 1/2 hrs . 
A 16-lb. bird will probably be ready in about 3 1/2 hrs. rather than his full 4 hrs. , and should be tested with a skewer after this time . 
Preheat the oven to Elec. , 300° F. ; Gas , Mark 5 ; Solid Fuel , Moderate , and keep it at these low temperatures until 3/4 hr. before the bird should be done , basting every 30 mins. , and using more fat if necessary . 
Then , 3/4 hr. before serving , turn the oven up to Elec. , 450° F. ; Gas , Mark 7 ; Solid Fuel , Hot — remove paper and bacon rashers , baste well and allow the breast to brown to a rich mahogany . 
Some people prefer to turn the bird right over and finish breast downwards to prevent drying , but this is difficult with a large bird , and should not be necessary if he is properly basted . 
Sausages and Bread Sauce may be served with the turkey . 
Cranberry Sauce is also excellent . 
The traditional vegetables are brussels sprouts and celery and roast potatoes , but with frozen vegetables a much greater choice is open . 
If there is no room round the turkey for roast potatoes and not enough space in the oven to cook them in a separate tray , well-creamed potatoes with plenty of butter and milk are very good . 
Tinned or fresh stewed cranberries served in half lemon skins , one for each person , are unusual and delicious . 
CHRISTMAS PUDDING Ingredients : 
3/4 lb. shredded suet 
4 eggs 
1/2 lb. each prunes , stoned , mixed peel , cut in long strips , small raisins , sultanas , currants , sifted flour , sugar and brown crumbs 
1/4 lb. dates 
1 teasp. mixed spice 
1/2 nutmeg , grated 
1 teasp. salt 
1/4 pt. milk 
Juice of 1/2 lemon 
A large wineglassful brandy 
1/4 cherries Shopping List : 
1 lb. suet 
4 eggs 
1 lb. prunes ( large ) 
1/2 lb. peel 
1/2 lb. raisins 
1 lb. sultanas 
1 lb. currants 
Dates 
1/4 lb. cherries 
Spice 
Nutmeg 
Lemon 
Brandy 
This is a very old and special recipe . 
The quantities given make one large and two small puddings . 
Mix the dry ingredients , stir in eggs , beaten to a froth , and the milk lemon juice and brandy mixed . 
Stand for 12 hrs. in a cool place , then turn into buttered basins . 
Boil for 6 hrs . 
On Christmas Day , boil for 2 hrs. before serving . 
Cover the basins with buttered greaseproof paper and then tie each one with a cloth . 
Stand in a fish kettle or bath or separately in large saucepans , so that the water comes half-way up each bowl . 
Renew water by adding more boiling water from time to time . 
MINCEMEAT 
All mincemeat , if it is to be made at home , should be prepared at least a fortnight before Christmas , and to make it in November is better still . 
Mincemeat keeps almost indefinitely and some people prefer it when it has been kept from the year before . 
If you have some from last year , you may find that it has become a little dry and crumbly-looking . 
In this case turn it into a bowl and mix it with a little brandy , which will restore the consistency and improve the flavour . 
Failing brandy , use cooking sherry or lemon juice . 
Mincemeat Ingredients : 
1 lb. raisins 
1/4 lb. sultanas 
1/2 lb. marmalade 
1/2 lb. suet 
1/2 lemon 
1/2 teasp. mixed spice 
1 gill brandy 
1/2 lb. currants 
1/4 lb. candied peel 
1/2 lb. demerara sugar 
1 lb. good cooking apples 
1/4 teasp. nutmeg 
Good pinch of ground ginger Shopping List : 
1 lb. raisins 
1/2 lb. currants 
1/2 lb. peel 
1/2 lb. sultanas 
1/2 lb. suet 
1/2 lb. marmalade ( thick ) 
1/2 lb. demerara sugar 
Ground ginger 
Nutmeg 
Mixed spice 
1 lb. apples 
Lemon 
Stalk currants , and wash all the dried fruit . 
Grate the rind of lemon . 
Peel , core and slice apples , put all through mincer . 
When minced , stir well , add lemon juice and brandy , stir again , fill into jars and tie down so that they are airtight . 
Keep in a dry , cool place . 
Mincemeat — Without Brandy Ingredients : 
6 oz. suet 
1/2 lb. currants 
4 oz. castor sugar 
Juice and peel of 1/2 lemon 
2 oz. blanched almonds 
6 oz. raisins 
1 lb. cooking apples 
1/2 teasp. each salt , mixed spice Shopping List : 
1/2 lb. suet 
1/2 lb. currants 
1/2 lb. castor sugar 
Lemon 
2 oz. blanched almonds 
1/2 lb. raisins 
1 lb. cooking apples 
Salt 
Mixed spice 
Peel , core and cut up apples , and stone the raisins . 
Grate lemon . 
Mix all the dry ingredients thoroughly , then add the others . 
When well mixed , put into jars , cover and store in a dry , cool place . 
CHRISTMAS CAKE Ingredients : 
8 oz. self-raising flour 
6 oz. butter 
6 oz. soft brown sugar 
3 eggs 
3 tablesp. milk 
3 dessertsp. rum , sherry , whisky or brandy 
2 oz . 
Jordan almonds 
6 oz. raisins 
6 oz. currants 
4 oz. sultanas 
2 oz. glace2 cherries 
2 oz. mixed peel 
1 teasp. mixed spice 
3/4 teasp. ground ginger 
3/4 Teasp. cinnamon 
1/2 teasp. salt Shopping List : 
3 eggs 
Rum , brandy , sherry or whisky 
1/2 lb. raisins 
1/2 lb. currants 
1/2 lb. sultanas 
1/4 lb. cherries 
1/4 lb. peel 
Spice 
Ginger 
Cinnamon 
Quantities are for a 7-9-in. cake tin . 
Prepare tin by lining with greased greaseproof paper . 
Blanch and chop the almonds , prepare fruit , chop peel , and cut cherries in half . 
Sieve all the dry ingredients together . 
Beat the butter and sugar to a cream and beat in the eggs . 
Mix dry ingredients with the fruit and stir in , moistening with milk and rum or sherry . 
Turn into prepared tin and hollow out the centre slightly . 
Place on the second runner from the bottom of the oven . 
Bake at Elec. , 325° F. ; Gas , Mark 4-5 ; Solid Fuel , Cool , for 2 1/2 hrs . 
Leave in the tin until cold . 
This cake would last four or five people two or three days . 
Christmas Cake Ingredients : 
1 lb. fresh butter 
1 lb. flour 
1/2 oz. mixed spice 
1 lb. candied peel ( substitute raisins if peel not liked ) 
1 lb. sultanas 
10 eggs 
1 lb. moist sugar 
1 lb. currants 
1/2 lb. almonds 
1/2 lb. cherries Shopping List : 
10 eggs 
1 lb. butter 
1 lb. sultanas 
1 lb. currants 
1/2 lb. almonds 
1/2 lb. cherries 
1 lb. brown sugar 
1 lb. peel 
Beat the butter to a cream and stir into it the yolks of the 10 eggs well beaten with the sugar , then add the spice and the almonds chopped very fine . 
Stir in the flour , add the currants washed and dried , the sultanas , the candied peel cut into pieces or the raisins chopped up . 
As each ingredient is added , the mixture must be beaten . 
Then butter a paper , place it round a tin , put in the cake , and bake it for 3 hrs. at Elec. , 300° F. ; Gas , Mark 4-5 ; Solid Fuel , Cool . 
This is a very much larger cake and is very rich . 
It keeps very well and may be baked in a very large tin , 10 or 12 in. , or two smaller ones . 
ICING THE CHRISTMAS CAKE Shopping List : for all icings : 
1/2 lb. ground almonds 
2 lb. icing sugar 
2 lemons 
4 eggs Almond Icing Ingredients : ( Quantity for 8-9-in. cake . ) 
1/2 lb. ground almonds 
1/2 lb. icing sugar 
1 egg 
1 teasp. lemon juice 
1 dessertsp. water 
Sieve almonds and sugar together into a mixing bowl . 
Stir in the beaten egg and lemon juice and water . 
Dust pastry-board with icing sugar and knead the almond paste on it till it is smooth and coagulated . 
Roll out about 1/4-in. thick . 
Brush the cake over with warm apricot jam . 
Fit almond paste over and press gently on to cake , being careful not to break . 
Cut any surplus from bottom edge of cake . 
The other method is to cut a circle the size of the top of the cake . 
Roll out remainder to length of circumference of cake ( measure with string ) and trim to a strip the depth of the cake . 
Then brush sides of cake with jam and lay on the strip and roll so that the strip adheres . 
Brush top with jam and apply circle . 
Gently press cut edges together . 
The Almond icing may be put on the cake as soon as it is really cold — allow 24 hrs. after baking . 
It should then be stored in an airtight tin in a dry , cool place , to be iced and decorated later . 
Some people dislike almond icing and it can be replaced by a layer of glace2 icing . 
Glace2 Icing Ingredients : 
1/2 lb. icing sugar 
1 tablesp. water 
1 teasp. lemon juice 
A soft icing to be put direct on the cake instead of Almond Paste if preferred . 
Sieve the icing sugar into a saucepan in which you have already put the water and lemon juice . 
Stir it over a low heat , holding it off the fire , until the sugar is melted and the temperature is just above blood heat . 
Pour it over the cake and allow it to run down the sides , smoothing it with a hot knife . 
Royal Icing Ingredients : 
1 lb. icing sugar 
1 dessertsp . 
Lemon juice 
2 egg whites 
This is the icing to use for the final coating and for the decorations . 
Sieve the icing sugar , making sure that it is quite free from lumps and lying slightly fluffed in the bowl . 
Stir in the lemon juice . 
Whip the whites of eggs to a medium stiffness , not until they will stand in peaks . 
Stir in gently , and then beat with a wooden spoon till you have a perfectly smooth , very white cream . 
If there is any delay before using , cover the bowl with a damp tea towel tightly stretched across the top to prevent air entering and hardening the icing . 
If icing seems too thin , more sugar may be beaten in . 
TRAVEL A HOLIDAY ON ANCIENT RHODES By GORDON COOPER 
Rhodes , as far as I am concerned , is the perfect holiday island : it has wonderful beaches and scenery , lush vegetation , a number of archaeological and historic remains and good hotels . 
It is full of that usually rather overvaunted quality " character . " 
Recently , I flew out by B.E.A . 
Comet 4B , now operating on a direct London-Athens service via Geneva . 
This route over the Alps , Florence , Brindisi , the Adriatic , Corfu and the Gulf of Corinth is rich in its rewards , and the service was , as usual , impeccable on this swift , smooth airliner . 
The tourist return fare is £100 16s. ( day ) , £84 12s. ( night ) , and the five-hour day flight links up at Athens with an Olympic Airways ' schedule , taking just over an hour to Rhodes ( through fare from London , £94 10s. to £108 ) . 
An alternative route is by sea from Piraeus , taking twenty-two hours . 
The approach to Rhodes by day is perfect . 
It is , according to legend , the island which rose in beauty from the foam , promised to Apollo by Zeus after he had divided the world amongst the gods , and overlooked the sun lord . 
Apollo named the island " Bride of the Sun . " 
Certainly the sun has blessed it . 
The seven springs , which feed Rhodes from the central mountains , have made it a garden of olive , lemon and orange groves , mulberry , oleander , pine and the slim pure cypress . 
Hibiscus and wistaria glow against white walls ; the grassland is carpeted with wild flowers of every description and poppies drip blood red where Rhodians once met by ancient temple or market place . 
After the original settlers came the Phoenicians , followed at varying intervals and amongst others by the Dorians , the Romans , the Byzantines , the Crusaders , the Turks , and the Italians . 
Rhodes , capital of the Dodecanese , was finally reunited with Greece fourteen years ago , but the marks of 3,500 years of passing civilisations remain to enchant the visitor . 
The city of Rhodes itself is a gem . 
Huge medieval ramparts rise from the edge of one of her two harbours to enclose the old town , including the Castello , the magnificent palace of the Grand Masters of the Knights of St. John — later the Knights of Malta — who ruled the island for 216 years . 
Here , for the first time , { Son et Lumie3re performances are being held this year . 
The Street of the Knights , rising steeply up to the Castello , is a medieval painting brought to life . 
Nearby , the Museum of Rhodes is housed in a lovely fifteenth-century building . 
You should walk round the ramparts of the old city , too , with superb views at each turn , and allow time to wander in the old commercial quarter , with its oriental influence , its minarets and clutter of wares , and the buzz of activity which increases proportionately as the day ends . 
Outside the ramparts the spacious modern city , largely in Venetian-Gothic style , owes much to Italian occupation . 
Above Rhodes , with glorious views in every direction , you should visit the Acropolis , with remains of the Temple of Apollo and the stadium and the completely restored theatre at its feet . 
Though Rhodes was founded in 408 B.C. , three other cities had been thriving already 1,000 years , reaching their peak from 660 B.C. Of these , Lindos , about 35 miles south of Rhodes , was the most important , with a population of some 100,000 . 
To-day , it is a stark white village of 750 inhabitants , clustered at the southern end of a beautiful bay and overlooked by the medieval fortress built by the Knights of St. John , in turn enclosing the remains of the Doric temple of Athena Lindia , on the Acropolis . 
This is reached on foot or by donkey , and from the top there are breath-taking views over this dramatic coastline , including the tiny natural harbour where St. Paul is said to have landed . 
The village itself is fascinating to explore and has an early Byzantine church , its interior lavishly covered with later frescoes . 
On the opposite coast , about 20 miles south-west of Rhodes , the reconstructed ruins of Kamiros have one of the most perfect situations of any archaeological remains I know . 
Here , on a steep hillside , amongst pines and clumps of wild rose , you can walk up the "main street " of ancient Kamiros between the low ruins of shops and villas to the high plateau topped by six columns , all that remain of the ancient Stoa . 
Behind you , the coastal hills plunge to the incredibly blue sea , backed by the Turkish mountains . 
Of the third ancient city , Ialyssos , about 10 miles south-west of Rhodes , little that is visible remains . 
But its former Acropolis , 800-ft . 
Mount Philerimos , whose summit is reached by an Alpine-like series of hairpin bends , is topped by the restored medieval church built , partially over Byzantine remains , by the Knights of St. John . 
Before the church entrance are the ruins of the Temple of Athena . 
Once again the views on all sides , framed between cypress trees , are lovely beyond description . 
Then there is the Valley of the Butterflies , about 15 miles south of Rhodes , so-called because of the clouds of butterflies which populate its wild scenery during the summer . 
Organised excursions are arranged to all these centres , or if you prefer to wander alone , you can hire a car , motor scooter or use local bus services . 
A weekly steamer service will also take you over to Turkey , returning the same day . 
Rhodes itself offers a good and growing selection of hotel accommodation — including the Hotel des Roses ( Luxury ) , the Belvedere ( 1st class B ) , both with private beaches , and the Pindos ( 2nd class ) . 
A new 1st-class hotel , the Hibiscus , with private beach , opens this summer . 
Most interesting of the hotel developments , however , is the Miramare-Beach hotel , recently taken over by Swiss management . 
About three miles out of town , it is a private paradise situated on the curve of a broad bay , looking out to the Turkish coast , 18 miles away . 
Accommodation is in self-contained bungalow units with private toilet and shower or bath , each with its own sun terrace from some of which you can step straight down on to the extensive private beach . 
Full pension rates range from £3 a day , including the hotel 's many facilities , such as swimming-pool , miniature golf , dancing , tennis and transport into town . 
The perfect time to visit the island is in spring or autumn . 
Summer can be very hot , and intermittent rainy spells usually occur any time between November and late February . 
SABENA CARAVELLES TO GREECE 
Early in April , Sabena Belgian World Airlines brought their Caravelle 6 's into service on the Brussels-Athens run , via Vienna or Frankfurt . 
This links with the company 's Caravelle schedules London-Brussels and onwards from Athens to various points in the Middle East . 
As usual , I found the Caravelle extremely comfortable and the flight virtually noiseless . 
The triangular windows offer a particularly fine view . 
Good hotels in Athens are the Grande Bretagne ( { 6de luxe ) , on the main square , the Ambassadeurs ( A ) , and the Alice ( B ) . 
The King George 2 ( { 6de luxe ) , next door to the Grande Bretagne , should also be mentioned for its fine art gallery — a private collection covering Greek art of the nineteenth century and including some delightful works . 
TRAVEL MINORCA By GORDON COOPER 
Minorca , second largest of the Balearic Islands , is also their Cinderella . 
While this "White and Blue Island " — so called because of the remarkable blue of the Mediterranean sea and sky broken by the brilliant white of the houses — may not offer much in the way of organised entertainments , it has considerable appeal for those prepared to make their own discoveries . 
Not least , it still retains an unspoilt atmosphere . 
The island is not difficult to reach , for there are air links between it and Barcelona and Palma , while there are thrice weekly sailings during the summer months between Barcelona and Port Mahon , as well as sea communications with Palma and Ibiza . 
It is even possible to make a long day-excursion to Minorca from Palma , travelling both ways by the night steamer . 
In Mahon there is the first-class Hotel Mahon , and there is simple hotel accommodation available at Alcaufer Creek ( Hotel Xuroy ) , Fornells ( Fonda Burdo ) and near Ciudadela ( Hotel Bahia ) . 
Internal communications are by bus and taxi . 
There is a Tourist Information Office in Mahon , and Horizon Holidays ( 17 , Hanover Street , W.1 ) offer inclusive travel arrangements . 
As every schoolboy knows , Minorca was a British possession during most of the eighteenth century , for it was vital to our naval operations in the Mediterranean . 
It was the scene , too , of that scandalous episode in our history : the events which led to the shooting of Admiral Byng . 
You can still visit the Golden Farm , close to Mahon , which was the temporary home of Nelson and Lady Hamilton in 1798 . 
Our occupation , however , is not marked as in some other lands by a passion for cricket , but in reminders of our habits , such as the sash windows to be seen in many houses and the names given to various articles in constant use which indicate a survival of the English language . 
Among table accessories the following indicate their origin : kitil ( kettle ) ; botil ( bottle ) ; mok ( mug ) ; saydbord ( sideboard ) ; and tibord ( tea-tray ) . 
Barracks are still called beriks , a haversack is aversack , and a naval guard is midzamen ( midshipman ) . 
The inquiring visitor will discover many more of these curious survivals in language . 
At Villa Carlos , known in the eighteenth century as Georgetown , the architecture and planning all belong to Portsmouth , with even , to-day , a George Street , a Stuart Street , and even a Victory Street . 
One of the many forts we built at the entrance to the harbour preserves the name of " Marlborough , " while in the large square , once used for ceremonial parades , I watched Spanish soldiers playing football and called up " a vision of serried lines of Redcoats , resplendent in their pipe-clayed accoutrements and thickly-powdered pigtails , of Highlanders in their curious blend of barbaric and formal uniforms , and of the tall Hessians in blue and gold braid " ( Eric Whelpton ) . 
Incidentally , on public holidays the girls dance a local version of the Highland Fling and wear on these occasions a kind of kilt with a tartan pattern . 
In addition to this historical appeal , there is also considerable archaeological interest , for the island is dotted with the work of prehistoric man , even though much of this record in stone is hard to read . 
The most interesting are the megalithic monuments called talayots ; tower-like structures of unmortared blocks of stone which bear a certain resemblance to the nuraghe of Sardinia , but are not actually linked in any way . 
There are also the altar-like taulas and the boat-shaped navetas , all offering appeal to those with historical imagination . 
Why should these relics be unique of their kind ? 
They certainly provide a mystery for us to-day . 
Ciudadela , the only other town of size , is some 30 miles distant from Mahon , and lies on the north-western portion of Minorca . 
Prior to the British occupation , it was the capital of the island , and it still retains some interesting buildings , including a number of palaces . 
Generally rather sleepy , it comes to life on St. John 's Day ( June 24 ) , when there is a parade of mounted men in period dress , jousting , and , most exciting of all , the horsemen urging their steeds up staircases into the living-rooms of the people , who pelt them with nuts and lighted fireworks . 
The hinterland of Minorca is flat , except for Monte Toro ( 1,150 ft. ) , a conical mountain on whose summit there is a pilgrimage church . 
The view over the countryside is rewarding , for it shows the number of mortarless stone walls which separate every patch of ground . 
There are even walls around individual trees . 
The land , by the way , is extremely stony , and high winds often prevail . 
But the most striking impression one gets is the dazzling white of the houses , and every building looks as though it had just been whitewashed , while the interior of even the humblest home is spotlessly clean . 
( Were the English of the nineteenth century non-litter-bugs ? ) 
The people on this Spanish island are most hospitable , and you can still see occasionally in their homes family heirlooms of Georgian furniture . 
the face of Hungary TODAY STORY AND PICTURES BY H. PEARCE SALES not much is known in Britain about this great little country which burst into flames and into the news in 1956 and has since been forgotten in the West 
SO-CALLED socialist realism which at least until lately has created a dull conformity over most aspects of life in communist countries has taken a resounding defeat in Hungary . 
The traveller can not but be encouraged immensely by this . 
The artistic temperament of the people is bursting out of a somewhat shabby shell on all sides as a result of 1956 and its uprising . 
Costly and tragic though it was it was not in vain by a long way . 
A more liberal form of communism emerged . 
The results of such comparative freedom of expression in the use of colour and in sheer ingenuity in the use of all kinds of materials are delightful and Sandor Patofi , Hungary 's greatest poet , who called his compatriots to launch an earlier revolution in his famous Arise Hungary , would have written an even more passionate piece about this silent revolution if he were alive today . 
Hungary will become the Italy of the eastern bloc if she is not already assuming the mantle . 
The Bond Street area of Budapest , Va2cintca and Petofil Sa2ndor , is crowded at most times of the day with elegant women . 
This we take as a signpost . 
Although it is foolish to make forecasts in this context we would not be surprised if the Hungarian 's natural bent for original artistic creation will not in time permeate the thinking of all the eastern bloc in even the details of everyday living . 
The priorities of industrial output are being reshuffled in several countries there and time and talent will soon be given to mass producing those fripperies that make life worthwhile for women and women more interesting to men . 
Except that for most people clothing is mainly of second quality and to them is expensive , and cars and refrigerators and the hallmarks generally of a highly developed industrial society are not easily obtainable , the ordinary people seem to have a considerable vested interest in the present way of life in Hungary today . 
Necessities and pastimes are abundant and very cheap and encourage support for the present regime , the Hungarians never having tasted the riches of the western peoples and having almost always been part of an oppressed and depressed nation . 
Just imagine experiencing a change from fascism to communism almost overnight ! 
It was not easy for anyone to believe at the time — about a year ago — when the noted scholar A. J. P. Taylor returned from a visit to Hungary , and wrote an encouraging report , that he was not misled while there . 
This is what he wrote : " the solid unmistakable fact is that Hungarians are now pretty well off : I have never seen a greater display of foodstuffs ... there are clothes in every quality , from multiple stores to elegant private shops — in the provinces too : the days of hardship are over " . 
We can verify this . 
Now , at a later date , we can add much that will help the travel adviser who wants intelligently and honestly to discuss this unusual country with prospective tourists . 
Ask any man in the street in London what he knows about Hungary today and he will mention the 1956 uprising and little else . 
To save face he might mention what he will call the international scandal of that year , that though a huge wave of sympathy went out to the Hungarian people , they were crushed militarily and the West did nothing — as if it could . 
He might even brighten up and say that he had an idea that they breed fine horses and horsemen . 
Even in the history books of the West , Hungary is pictured as an unhappy country . 
Riches and privilege ruled and a firmly entrenched church was somehow entangled with those excesses while three million beggars , a term often used to describe the population , existed on what they could scrape from a not very good soil . 
Now a welfare state is firmly established and so far the people seem able to express themselves fairly freely in their work and play and are no longer considered mainly as units in an economic machine which has to be pushed along vigorously to meet over ambitious industrial targets though in the end what is produced and achieved is for those same people . 
The danger of greater control being exercised is still there , though we feel that this excitable people still very much Hungarian at heart would revolt again without question and without considering the consequences if pressure were again exerted . 
Some leading communists confide that the system is now too liberal to achieve quickly enough the kind of results that will impress the children and young people . 
Nevertheless the picture in the mind of western man seriously needs to be corrected . 
The Hungarian people are no longer poor or oppressed according to their standards . 
Hungary today judging by our own conscientious observations and pointed enquiry is climbing above its circumstances . 
If as is likely Hungary becomes the " Swiss " workshop of the eastern bloc in the highly skilled uses of metal in the communist version of a common market at least a settled and increasingly prosperous period is likely to be written into a history that has had far too many " glorious " revolutions , occupations and invasions . 
Budapest , the only city which the Danube actually crosses of the eight countries it flows through , shows few marks of her previous troubles , though only a quarter of her housing was standing after the war , and she lost all six bridges and the row of well-known hotels on the Danube . 
Even during the worst period of the Berlin crisis when the two Mr. Ks were shouting across the world there was no tension at all among the people though some strapping young men of the army were sweating it out in exercises in the country . 
The people went off as usual at the week-end to the Buda hills for hiking and picnics , or wandered around the museums in Pest , or compromised for the parks or swimming pools of the mile long St. Margaret Island in midstream between Buda and Pest — the city has 500 parks . 
They were however all anxious freely to discuss the situation and were upset mainly because the socialist nations were not being considered in the West the powerful and progressive forces that was their due in the counsels of the nations . 
They were as fearful of the situation as is mankind everywhere . 
The greatest charge on the material plane that western man makes against socialist systems is that spreading wealth to the ultimate extent and controlling everything tends as we intimated in our introductory remarks to bring conformity and dullness . 
But one tends not to consider the spirit of some peoples to overcome this or that personal gain is not the only incentive that mankind responds to . 
And whatever virtues the Hungarians may lack it is certainly not a shortage of spirit . 
Consider their history ! 
After the first stages of socialisation , and when it becomes normal and accepted and the party and Government feel " safe " , individuality tends gradually to come out and bloom again throughout human society and especially so in those countries where communism was born of war and was not adopted initially by choice . 
But it may take a long , long time . 
Hungary is a case in point and examples at random come to mind . 
Her new architecture is attractive , imaginative and colourful and invites comment . 
Whether flats or shops or restaurants , there is a marked individuality . 
At an international football match in Budapest in the presence of a visiting premier , Mr. Kadar , and a benchful of important party members , there was no communist or patriotic paraphernalia . 
Even recorded cha cha chas were played during the interval and an advertisement trundled round on the back of a lorry for a local leg show . 
Her new and refurbished hotels and restaurants are refreshingly different in furnishings and approach , even the uniforms of the staff , though conforming to that simplicity that is good taste . 
Her motor coaches are among the most attractive in the world with unusual touches in colouring , shape and seating . 
Her stores and shops , the best of which incidentally are as full of goods as anywhere in Europe , show promise of that elegance with showmanship that is the hallmark of the western city , though many of the small presumably private and struggling shops are pitifully inadequate to the eyes of a Londoner . 
Her tourist literature is bright and original and always has its quota of pretty girls , and her publications generally are of a high order . 
She has many attractive daily papers and a host of popular periodicals . 
Even her posters are quite unlike anything one would expect in a communist country . 
And one would hardly dare suggest that her musical life conforms to any except the Hungarian way . 
Gipsy music is still exhilarating and sad in turn and beautifully played everywhere . 
Although Liszt can be quoted as being accepted internationally , Bartok and Kodaly , who understandably are worshipped here , are only just about being understood or appreciated anywhere else . 
And art is quite non-conformist enough for the average taste . 
A modern painting in my bedroom at the Royal Hotel would in London have been considered imaginative and certainly not photographic . 
The teenagers there could hardly be called conformists either . 
They are dressed as are their western counterparts . 
Some of the girls sported silver sugar loaf or beehive hairdos and almost all seem at some time to parade with many frilly petticoats to umbrella their skirts or appear to have been poured into skin tight slacks and sloppy jumpers . 
They are most attractive . 
The boys wear longish jackets and tight trousers and are well scrubbed . 
But imagine our surprise when on an old brassy and romantic excursion boat cruising down the Danube with a full capacity of family life — from grandmothers to tiny tots — the many teenagers rocked and rolled to the strains of the songs of Perry Como and Cliff Richard played on the ship 's relay system . 
We later learned that they " loved " such western " pop " singers , laughed at the cinema with Terry Thomas and Jimmy Edwards , and shed a tear for Norman Wisdom . 
Though Budapest is a fine city with many attractions for the traveller , and the Hungarian countryside with its great carpets of maize is pleasant , the Danube bend part of the country being the most beautiful she has to offer — a car ride for several hours on a summer evening being a most agreeable pastime — and of course there is the wonderful natural feature of the lake at Balaton , it is the people in Hungary who impress one and who make the traveller feel it is good to be here . 
Budapest , which as yet has few new or modernised hotels but takes about 150,000 tourists a year , mainly from the USSR , has much attractive night life . 
It is possible to stay around drinking , talking and being entertained until 5 a.m. but seldom if ever will the tourist become a victim of the malicious malpractices of night life in the West . 
The Hungarians are very honest people and the seamy side of humanity is seemingly kept at bay . 
In many ways it is not easy to be dishonest in a communist country . 
Souvenirs for instance are nearly always a problem for the traveller . 
Here in Hungary prices are fixed for everything . 
Whether you go to the luxury hotel shop or the small place near the market makes no difference . 
This is a very acceptable fact for tourists . 
The personality of the Hungarians somehow overawes the material attractions of the place . 
No more is this evident than during one of those hot summer evenings which seem to occur frequently in Budapest . 
Young couples canoodling away in corners are to be seen everywhere , and bring understanding smiles from passing strangers . 
Parts of the city with its great and rather gaunt wide streets and squares are attractively lit , and aided by the shop windows seem to draw the inhabitants from far and near . 
The art and mystery of quilting By VIATOR 
QUILTING IS A TRADITIONAL ART IN MOST PARTS OF EUROPE and Asia . 
In Siberia was found some years ago coloured quilted material bearing a fine design of reindeer , and dating from the first century A.D. In Britain the craft reached its peak in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries ; and it has survived as a peasant art until today in Wales and the North . 
The depression between the two wars resulted in a great revival of quilting , due to efforts to find employment for women in the distressed areas . 
This really began with the showing of some beautiful Durham quilts at the Women 's Institutes handicrafts exhibition in London in 1927 . 
The Rural Industries Bureau then set to work to foster the craft by forming training centres : quilt wives were found still working in four of the Welsh counties and were engaged to train others . 
A depot was set up in London for the sale of the work , in which Queen Mary took a great interest . 
The simplest kind of quilt such as can be seen in many a Welsh home , consists of two layers of material , sometimes one of them of patchwork , with a layer of unspun wool in between : the whole stitched all over with criss-cross lines to keep the wool in place . 
During the centuries skilled quilt wives have evolved the most intricate patterns in this stitching , thus making the quilt a work of art . 
As a rule no patterns are kept , each quilt is evolved afresh , so that no two are ever exactly alike . 
They are made up of different combinations of simple units of design , the heart , rose , feather , tulip , chain , fan , and so on . 
The feather motif is peculiar to Durham ; the chain is used both in the North and in Wales , where you may hear that it was derived from the ships ' cables of the ancient Phoenicians . 
Also Welsh are the circles and spirals , recalling the Celtic crosses , which in turn were partly derived from the art of the ancient Britons . 
Leaf shapes are common to both regions : a Glamorgan worker added to her repertoire two new forms , based on a chestnut and a lupin leaf , which a neighbour happened to bring in while she was at work . 
Some of the designs such as the Tudor Rose are believed to date back to Tudor times , handed down in the family since those days . 
The materials are fixed in a frame , which is laid flat upon trestles for working . 
Often two friends will work at it together . 
A few chief points are marked out with chalk before the stitching begins , work usually starting at the centre , with that section fixed in the frame . 
All that is needed besides needle and thread is a ruler and a piece of chalk for drawing on the pattern . 
Sometimes a few household possessions may be used to help with the drawing , a tumbler for circles , or an oval dish — but nothing more . 
All the rest is done by the eye and hand . 
The best filling is lamb 's wool : in the country this can be got ready combed and washed from the nearest of the little woollen factories that still survive in parts of Wales . 
This makes the warmest covering possible , and such quilts are easily washed when necessary . 
A famous Quilt Wife was Mrs. Catrin Evans of Bow Street in Cardiganshire . 
In her time , she made hundreds of quilts ; her work could be found all over the country and further afield , even in America . 
As a girl she had been taught the craft in a month 's apprenticeship ; after that , she was a finished artist . 
In those days , Welsh quilt wives might go to work at a farmhouse . 
In her own words : " Many weeks before a farmer 's daughter was to be married , I would be called to a farm . 
The farmer 's daughter would require six and sometimes more quilts for her new home . 
Her mother would provide all the material . 
I would take my wooden frame to the farm and for weeks I would be making quilts for the bride . 
" I was paid a shilling a day and had my food and lodging . 
I worked from seven in the morning till nine at night . 
Most times they would be patchwork quilts , farmers ' wives kept all the old clothes to be cut up for quilts . 
I 've been days and days doing nothing but cutting out and matching pieces . " 
All that was nearly a century ago . 
In recent years the workers have been helped to adapt their old designs , formerly found only on bedspreads , to such intricate shapes as dressing gowns , coats and cardigans , as well as to rugs and cushions . 
The idea of quilted motor rugs , with cushions to match , the colours harmonising with the colour of the car , was one that appealed to many buyers in the days of the revival after the first war . 
IONA TREVOR JONES tells of Making the most of Spring flowers 
MOST OF OUR SPRING FLOWERS ARE GROWN FROM BULBS OR corms , and all such flowers prefer to be arranged with stems standing in shallow water . 
So when considering the designing of spring flowers it is not surprising to find that modern line or Japanese styles are popular with floral artists . 
These arrangements generally call for shallow dishes and trays , etc . 
Some cleverly executed modern designs can completely transform a very ordinary earthenware meat dish or soup plate into loveliness . 
Even the simplest design of catkin sprays and daffodils can look most effective . 
During the early part of the year when flowers are both difficult and expensive , economy is important , thus the design chosen must aim at making the best possible use of each flower . 
The uncluttered simplicity of clean-cut lines echoes the freshness of spring itself , while the yellow "King Alfred " trumpets herald the coming of summer sunshine . 
It is essential that all flowers and foliage appear to be growing from one root or indeed from one bulb . 
Although not difficult to achieve , many newcomers to floral art fail to give this point sufficient importance . 
All stems should be placed so that they radiate from the centre of the container or the pinholder , and not placed soldier-fashion , all in a row . 
Tender , hollow stems such as those of daffodils or narcissi sometimes split when placed on pinholders , but if the base of these stems are first tied lightly with a little cotton or wool , it will prevent further trouble . 
Thin stems such as those of freezias , violets , primroses , etc. , that are too fragile or thin to stand on the pinholder can be grouped and placed inside a natural hollow stem ( like the cow-parsley stem for instance ) . 
This is an excellent way also of giving length to very short stems that are required high up in an arrangement . 
The hollow stems should first be filled with water to make sure that no air bubble gets in and so prevent the water from reaching the flower head . 
Crescent-shaped designs are often favoured for spring flowers and for this purpose stems of such things as willow-catkins and green broom can be persuaded to curve or bend by first soaking them in warm water and then using firm pressure of warm hands . 
The natural curving or bending action of the tulip stems on the other hand has always presented a problem to the flower arranger . 
Stems of the early-forced varieties are especially tender , owing to the unnatural atmosphere in which many of them are grown . 
Many words of advice have been written on this subject — a teaspoonful of sugar or starch added to the water , we are told , helps to keep tulip stems straight . 
Florists use stub wires twisted around the stems when a rigid stem is required for use in wreath or bouquet . 
You may also have noticed that all bought tulips have rubber bands tied around the stems ; the more tender the stems the more rubber bands are used . 
This is essential for quick handling by the florists and also to ensure the minimum of damage during display . 
Some varieties of tulips have stronger stems than others . 
Your seedsman usually indicates this in his catalogue . 
Occasionally I arrange some of the weaker-stemmed varieties so that they flow naturally and gracefully from the container . 
They show to best effect when the container is placed on a stand or pedestal . 
Few flowers offer a wider range of colour and shape than the tulip . 
Two varieties which I favour are the graceful , pure white lily-flowered " White Triumphator " and the exciting wierd-shaped , black Parrot . 
Last year in Paris it gave me great pleasure to use both varieties together in the one arrangement . 
The subject I had chosen to illustrate was " Jekyll and Hyde . " 
An unusual one for a flower arrangement . 
The idea came to me as I wandered in the garden one day when the contrast in the colour and shape of these two flowers impressed me very much . 
The required effect for the exhibition was gained by grouping all the pure and angelic-like white flowers on the one side , reaching upwards , while on the other side the black ones were grouped , dark and almost sinister , to hang and creep down as if in despair . 
The final touch was added to this dramatic interpretation , by placing it to stand on a base of misty grey tulle , representing the mysteries of the human mind . 
Another Spring flower , the iris , is sometimes called " The poor man 's orchid . " 
It is not the colour or the texture of iris petals that fascinate me , but the fine detail of their exquisite shape . 
I love them all , the Dutch and English varieties , and later on the Flag and Bearded types among which there are such exciting colour combinations . 
My favourite , however , is a small green and black variety sometimes called " The Widow Iris " , undoubtedly because of its subdued colouring . 
To the keen gardener it may appear dull and uninteresting but one is not expected to foresee the dignity it portrays when arranged with the right kind of flowers . 
Another iris which I would not care to be without is a species called Foetidissima ( Gladdon ) . 
Although its flowers are small and rather insignificant , it is well worth growing for its brilliant scarlet berries and bright green foliage . 
The latter persists almost throughout the year . 
Iris were often favoured in old Dutch and Flemish flower portraits and are even more frequently found in Japanese pictures and designs . 
Illustrated here is the typical " Florist 's half-dozen " iris used in Japanese style . 
The arrangement is in two separate parts and so is known as " The divided kenzan " design , kenzan being the Japanese word for pinholder . 
The container in the photograph is a blue " Denby Ware " meat dish , and the small pebbles in the water add considerably to the decorative effect of the completed arrangement . 
Some leaves of the purple decorative kale are conveniently used to tone in with the general colour scheme , adding weight to the base of the design , and to hide the pinholder from view . 
The purple and white variegated varieties of kale are easily grown . 
The seeds can be planted in open ground and later transplanted like other members of the cabbage family . 
This method ensures that only the best coloured specimens are given garden space . 
The leaves are at their best during the winter months when all other foliage is scarce . 
They last for weeks in water . 
To prevent the water fouling , a chlorophyl tablet should be added . 
Farmers ' wives need never worry about growing too much of this kale because what is not needed for decorative purposes can always be thrown over the garden fence for the cows . 
Many varieties of shrubs blossom during April and May . 
The bushes are dressed overall in jewel colours . 
Brilliant pink camelias are about the earliest , closely followed by scarlet rhododendrons , cerise azalea , creamy magnolias and best of all , the garden lilacs . 
Alas , how often have we all hopefully filled jugs and vases with the freshest , sweetest lilac only to find that after a day or so the flowers have wilted sadly and the leaves seem fresh enough ? 
IMPROVE YOUR PHOTOGRAPHY by E. L. Wright 
THIS summer many thousands of exposures in either black and white or colour will be made by photographers of all kinds , and there is no doubt that many will wish that they had made a better job of it . 
So here you are shown how to obtain better results . 
The Camera 
The make and type of camera you use is not so important as many people try to make out . 
The expert will get splendid results from a cheap box camera ; others will get poor results from an expensive model . 
The greater the amount paid for a camera , and the more gadgets it has is no sure way of guaranteeing good results . 
But whatever model you have , study it carefully and know thoroughly how to work it and what its capabilities and limitations are . 
Once you are master of your camera , you have gone a long way to good pictures . 
Exposure 
More negatives are spoilt by wrong exposure , especially by over-exposure , than by any other cause . 
Modern films are so fast that one is apt to underestimate the amount of light reaching the film and so cause very dense images . 
The tables published by the film makers and included with the film are an excellent guide , but there is no doubt that a light meter is worth its cost . 
Once set it takes all the guess work from exposure , and will show a high percentage of well graded negatives from which pleasing prints may be obtained . 
All photography depends on light reflected from the subject burning an image on the film ; the stronger the light the denser the image . 
But a light meter measures only the average amount of light reflected from the subject . 
Thus a certain amount of care has to be exercised in its use . 
The common way of using one is to point it at the subject and take a reading . 
But what happens if you take your best girl in a white frock standing against a black background ? 
Either she comes out with a white sheet of a face and frock , void of all detail , and a dense black background , or else the detail is present in her face and clothing and the wall looks peculiar . 
This is because you can not get a good reading with such a contrasty subject . 
Now my way is to use the incident light method . 
Most light meters are sold with a translucent mask which will fit over the light aperture . 
Fit it every time you use the meter , and point the meter towards the light source , making sure that it points slightly downwards below the horizon , and not directly at the light . 
You will then get much better readings and hence much better negatives . 
I always use this method and rarely get wrongly exposed negatives or transparencies . 
While on this subject of exposure , do not forget a lens hood . 
This is one of the most valuable accessories it is possible to have , and use it every time you make an exposure . 
If you have not got one , then try to get one that is made for your particular camera for then it is specially computed not to interfere with the working of the lens . 
Composition 
After exposure the most important part of photography lies in the composition of the picture , but this is a topic that can not adequately be covered in the space allowed to me . 
You have all seen the portrait with the tree or telegraph pole standing out of the sitter 's head , or the face screwed into a painful grimace because the subject is staring into a powerful sun . 
Many books have been written about composition , but a short answer is , does the picture look right in all its aspects — position of subject ; balance ; colour or tonal range ? 
Is there anything in the picture which seems alien to the idea being illustrated ? 
If there is , then the composition is not right . 
If you are interested in portraits then try to make your sitter take an interesting pose . 
Do avoid making the subject stare directly at the lens ; a three quarter view is more appealing , and , if possible , do have the sitter doing something . 
Looking at a book ; examining a statue or the scenery , or gardening ; anything that will take away that camera conscious look . 
And at all costs keep the background plain , for a distracting background spoils thousands of portraits each year . 
Then again , many photographs shown to me for criticism have been spoilt by camera shake . 
Do learn to hold the camera still and not jerk the button at the moment of exposure , especially you 35 mm. people , for when your negatives or transparencies are enlarged the slightest bit of camera shake will be magnified many fold . 
It is not possible to cover all aspects of photography in this small space but it is hoped the foregoing will help you to better photography this year . 
EXPRESSION IN THE PRIMARY SCHOOL by S. C. Clarkson The First Two Years 
THERE is , of course , no well-defined break at any normal stage of progress in expression , though one can see the nai " ve work of the infant and the competent feeling for words of the young Grammar school pupil . 
Between these two stages the Primary school has to formulate the ideas of personal composition , as well as giving the elements of grammar , spelling and style — the tools for the job . 
By and large today , the Infant school is a separate entity . 
Often the seven year old goes " up to the big school " , or to a different part of the town altogether . 
All teachers agree that the transfer should be as smooth as possible . 
The Junior school teacher for the first two years should surely be aware of the Infant methods and be in sympathy with those methods employed . 
What a set-back it is in expression-work of any sort , if the child on transfer is overawed or ill at ease in the new atmosphere ! 
Most little ones have a contribution to make and are eager to learn and be sociable . 
This first eagerness should be guided and controlled but not damped or thwarted , if vital work is to be nurtured in the children . 
The Primary teacher will find wide variation in both desire and power of expression . 
Home backgrounds differ . 
Some have sympathetic or indulgent parents . 
Some homes are mere dormitories , with only the week-end allowing time for the parents to meet as a family . 
It follows then that the teacher will have to divide the classes into groups of roughly the same standard of progress and to allow for the " advanced " child as also for the slower one . 
The " Board of Education " , as it was in 1933 , made a true and wise statement in its Suggestions Handbook . 
" Written composition , " it said , "is generally begun too soon and practised too often . " 
It is only tradition and obsession that demands a weekly piece of writing from each child in the class . 
If we look ahead a little to the work of the majority of our leavers , we must admit that few will need ( nor will they wish perhaps ) to have to write a formal letter . 
This is a READING world . 
But how can we make it a SPEAKING world ? 
Our children must first have something to say before they can write it . 
Almost every lesson should give chance for the children " to say their piece " . 
The one word answer should be discouraged and the onus of response fairly shared . 
For some children will be needed a stimulus , for a domineering few the gentle brake . 
Perhaps all may find individual opportunity in the small and carefully planned " Group " or "Family " . 
A folio of large pictures or posters , lively and colourful is collected and these are discussed and talked about in turn . 
Occasionally during the term there is one child able to weave an interesting oral tale with this " broadsheet " as a starting point . 
Incidentally useful illustrations have been gleaned from the covers of magazines ( Ronald Lampitt 's aerial studies for the former " John Bull " are full of detail and good exercises in correct observation ) . 
The information sheets of the National Savings Movement I have found valuable , as indeed are most travel posters . 
In a word here , one should say , never destroy any picture . 
Teachers can not have too many , future articles will show the use to which they may be placed in expression work . 
Quite a few nervous children are diffident about facing a critical audience of their own fellows . 
To overcome this I have in the classroom a home-made "television screen " . 
My third article will explain the making of this apparatus . 
Behind this cover I have found it more easy for some to make their announcements , conduct " interviews " , or retell and devise a " commercial advertisement " . 
Some of the first attempts at " composition " will be the retelling of stories read or heard . 
Here is little scope for original thought , and the severe discipline of the sequence of detail has to be observed . 
The great stories of the Bible ( not only the parables ) have inspired adult authors . 
The Old Testament is full of dramatic action — the two spies Joshua and Caleb ; the four leprous men who discovered the forsaken camp at Samaria told in 2 Kings , chapter 7 ; Paul 's shipwreck in the Adriatic that fascinated Nelson before Trafalgar ; Naboth 's vineyard , are all excellent material source for the young story-teller . 
So too are the merry jingles , nursery rhymes , limericks and sing-song skipping snatches — these by their very beat or homely humour are quickly memorised . 
They are worth collating into a personal anthology . 
Progressive teachers will know of the similar series titled "Sally go round the Moon " , and " Bells across the Meadow " , which seem to me to be a fine collection for speaking , learning , and enjoying . 
Anecdotes on this style may be gleaned for telling and retelling by the children orally or on paper when sufficient skill is acquired . 
( " ... Sir Isaac Newton completely forgot about eating when his mind was on a problem . 
One day his landlady had to go out , but left him an egg to boil for three minutes . 
She returned much later to find Sir Isaac with the egg in his hand while his watch boiled merrily away in the pan . " 
Other fanciful tales could be made up on the same lines . 
Pets are a natural centre of interest to children . 
Quite young people will say how they care for their animals or will " open out " if they are privileged to hold a pet that has been brought to school . 
Small booklets in the shape of animals can be contrived and filled with little stories and poems about animals . 
These can be individual and most delightful where the children have been interested and encouraged . 
My own charges are always asked to bring their cards to show ( and talk about ) on their birthdays , whilst immediately after Christmas each one in turn brings the favourite present , with where possible a talking demonstration . 
We have seen " Bayko " houses go up , steam engines turn , dolls be dressed , roller skates donned , and embryo conjurors explain their tricks ! 
At all ages in the Primary school I set great store on the keeping of personal diaries . 
In these small lined notebooks , in which pencil may be used , one of the first tasks of the day is for an entry if possible . 
Not all days are Red-Letter days , but a child will be glad at some slight happenings and wish to record the fact of getting all its sums or spellings correct ; of playing or supporting at a school match ; of the class weekly service ; broadcast lesson ; or visitor to the school . 
Half of the booklet issued for the personal diaries is used for the compiling of a dictionary . 
Except for the rarely used letters x , z , q , and y , a whole page is given to each of the remaining letters . 
At the beginning of the year all children copy in on the right page the days of the week , months and season , popular colours and the names of schools around . 
GAS COOKERS 
This is the first of two related reports on cookers . 
The second one , dealing with electric cookers , will be published shortly , together with a comparison of the two types . 
Whatever features or trimmings a cooker may have , the main requirements are few and simple . 
The oven and grill must cook evenly — the oven , over a wide range of temperatures . 
On the hob , food must be cooked fast or slowly , as required . 
The cooker must be easy to use and easy to clean . 
The finish must be able to stand up to hard wear . 
BRANDS 
The 16 gas cookers chosen for testing are listed in Table 1 . 
They cost about £30 to £70 , the most popular price range , and had four boiling burners ( except for the NEW WORLD 33 and PEERESS , which had three ) , an oven and a grill . 
One , the LONDON , was only available in the North Thames Gas Board area , where it has a very wide sale . 
The NEW WORLD 173 RANGETTE , larger than most , was included because it was in the same price range , had unusual features and is widely sold . 
Table cookers and small models with only one or two boiling burners were excluded ; so were very large , expensive models and those designed to be built in as part of a series of kitchen fitments . 
Full names are given in Table 1 . 
Shortened forms are used in the text . 
DIMENSIONS 
If the cooker is to fit into an existing kitchen layout , then the height — particularly of the hob — the distance the cooker stands out from the wall ( depth ) , and its width are important . 
These are listed in Table 1 . 
OVENS Useful cooking space 
There is considerable difference between the size of an oven and the useful cooking space in it . 
This is because some space is necessary round the food to allow the heat to circulate . 
The cooking space has been calculated in cubic inches from the area of the baking tray provided and the height from the lowest cooking level ( the bottom of the oven ) to the lowest projection at the top — usually the top of the door frame . 
This is the method of British Standard 1250 : 1955 ( Domestic Appliances burning town gas ) for calculating cooking space ( figures in Table 1 ) . 
The whole oven can be used when necessary , however — for a turkey , for instance . 
For the best results , no baking tray larger than the one provided with the cooker should be used , as it might make the cooking uneven . 
Shelves 
Two shelves were provided with each cooker . 
A third , reversible one was provided with the ENVOY . 
There were 13 possible cooking levels , including the oven base , for the ENVOY , compared with only four for the LEISURE , and five to nine for the others ( see Table 1 ) . 
All shelves were designed to slide out without tilting appreciably and — to prevent the risk of accidentally pulling the shelf right out — most had to be lifted in order to remove them . 
Those without this safeguard were the CANNON , EQUERRY , ENVOY , LONDON , MONARCH and the NEW WORLD 33 and 42A . 
The LEISURE had an additional inner glass door — a possible advantage , as cooking progress could be inspected without allowing much heat to escape . 
The glass door became too hot to open without an oven cloth . 
Cleaning 
How easy the ovens are to clean depends as much on how they are used as on their design . 
But the removable oven top and base of the CAVALIER , the removable oven top of the NEW WORLD 44 , and the hinged oven top of the EQUERRY were definitely helpful . 
Oven cleaning can be tiresome . 
It may be useful to remember that there will be less splashing when joints are cooked longer , at a lower temperature ; when the meat is covered with foil ; when a container is well filled ; and that the oven floor can be protected from spilt juice if a tray is put under pies or tarts . 
When the oven does get dirty , it should be wiped out while it is still warm before the dirt has time to stick . 
Thermostats 
All the ovens had thermostats . 
This meant that they heated up to , and stayed at , a temperature that depended on the thermostat setting . 
All were marked 1/4 , 1/2 , and 1 to 9 . 
The RENOWN also had settings 10 , 11 , and 12 , but its cookery book gives no recipes for them . 
Eight cookers had extra " low " settings — lower than the 1/4 settings — for dishwarming and for slow cooking . 
The British Standard implies that all cookers should cook the same dish at the same setting . 
For each cooker , the manufacturer 's instructions indicate the best shelf position for different types of food ; this is important as the oven is , intentionally , much hotter at the top than at the bottom . 
We recorded , as a matter of interest , the temperature ( °F. ) at the top , middle and bottom of each oven , at settings 2 , 6 and 9 . 
It was not easy to set the oven to the same temperature each time , because of play in the thermostat knob . 
It is worth getting into the habit of always setting the thermostat from a higher figure . 
Cooking performance 
CA carried out the cooking tests specified in the British Standard . 
They show whether the right amount of heat reaches the top and bottom of the food . 
Also , by the evenness of browning , they show how even the heat is at different levels in the oven , when both baking trays and circular cake tins are used , as these affect the circulation of heat differently . 
The oven is tested at cool and hot settings , and when it is filled with different size dishes , for a complete dinner . 
Each dish has to be ready within a specified time . 
There is nothing adventurous about the recipes , but they provide a good test for cookers . 
Details of the tests are given in Table 2 
Some ovens cooked better than others , but all were satisfactory . 
The three best were the CAVALIER , ENVOY and PRINCE . 
The LEISURE , MONARCH and CABARET , at the other end of the scale , were fairly good . 
On the LEISURE , the food tended to overbrown on the underside . 
The MONARCH oven cooked slowly ; neither the rich fruit cake nor most of the dinner was well cooked in the time allowed . 
The CABARET oven was cooler than most , particularly at higher settings . 
Food cooked slowly and the top browned before the underside . 
Gradings of the cooking performance of each oven are given in Table 1 . 
HOBS Cleaning 
The tops of cookers get very messy . 
Even the most careful cook lets the milk boil over sometimes . 
So it is most important that the top should be easy to clean . 
In our tests , the hobs were dirtied by letting milk boil over on two burners of each cooker . 
All the milk was then cleaned from the cooker , and whatever parts were necessary to do this were moved . 
Both time and difficulty in cleaning were taken into account when assessing the results . 
The CANNON and NEW WORLD 42A came out best , then the PEERESS , CABARET and NEWHOME . 
Worst to clean was the MONARCH . 
The milk burned on the hob very readily and trickled down under the spillage tray . 
Cleaning was both slow and difficult . 
The LEISURE and NEW WORLD 44 were little better than the MONARCH . 
The NEW WORLD 33 , 44 and RANGETTE had similar hobs , completely different from all the other cookers . 
They consisted of removable stainless steel rods ( see photograph on p. 252 ) . 
The rods became discoloured by heat from the burners and had to be rubbed with abrasive to restore their original appearance . 
The time to do this was not included in our cleaning assessment . 
We have been told that some people prefer this new design , but in two series of tests carried out by CA , we found that they were more difficult and slower to clean than most of the others . 
Boiling speed 
The speed with which water could be heated was considered to be particularly important . 
A pint could be boiled in a pan on at least one burner of all the cookers in under 3 1/2 minutes . 
The quickest was about 2 3/4 minutes . 
It was found that burners of the same make and gas rating took slightly different times to do the same job . 
Because of this , and the fairly small difference in time taken by the different models , we consider it impossible to pick out any as being markedly faster than others . 
Three pints could be boiled in 6 to 7 minutes . 
Simmering 
All the boiling burners could be set low enough to keep one or three pints of water simmering at 180°F. with the lid off , but not with it on . 
When simmering food , you burn it if the heat is not evenly distributed at the bottom of the pan . 
To find out which cookers provided the most even heat , porridge was simmered at as near as possible to 180°F. in a light , 7-inch diameter , aluminium pan without a lid for 30 minutes . 
Only the size of burner producing the most even heat was rated as this would be the best one for simmering . 
The MONARCH simmered most evenly , leaving a negligible deposit on the bottom of the pan . 
Only one , the ENVOY , caused any burning , and this was only slight . 
Special burners 
The MONARCH and RENOWN each had a thermostatically controlled boiling burner as well as three ordinary ones . 
They are designed to raise food to , and keep it at , a constant temperature . 
This is achieved by a device which adjusts the gas according to the temperature of the pan base , against which it is spring-loaded . 
Different types and quantities of food , and different pans , need different settings , mentioned in the manufacturers ' cookery books . 
We found , however , that , when chips were put into a pan of hot fat , there was a delay before the burner responded to the change in temperature . 
The fat heated up again much more slowly than on an ordinary burner with the tap turned full on until the fat was hot again . 
The chips cooked on the two special burners were considered very soggy compared with those cooked on ordinary burners . 
But , in general , the special burners are useful when you want to leave the cooker unattended . 
When you have learnt the setting — for the pan , the food and the quantities — you can do this , knowing that nothing will boil over , or burn . 
GRILL Design 
A recent trend in cooker design has been to move the grills to eye level . 
The advantage of a grill above the hob is that it is easier to watch , as you do n't have to bend , and allows the oven to be higher . 
Only one of the models tested , the ENVOY , had the grill in the old position , below the hob . 
One , the RANGETTE , had the grill just above the hob , on which the grill pan rested ( see photograph on p. 252 ) . 
All the others had the grill at eye level . 
With all but one of the cookers the grid of the grill pan could be at one of two possible distances from the heat . 
The exception was the CANNON , which had four available positions . 
THE CANNON and NEW WORLD 44 grill pans had two handles and were difficult to hold in one hand . 
This meant that the grill pan had to be put down before toast could be turned , for example . 
Five models — LEISURE , CANNON , RANGETTE , ENVOY , and MONARCH — had grill compartments which could be closed when not in use , but only on the ENVOY and MONARCH could they be closed with the grill pan under . 
The grill compartments are also useful for putting dishes to warm with heat from the oven or boiling burners . 
Other cookers had open shelves under the grill which could be used for the same purpose . 
There were no such facilities on the RENOWN whose grill pan was suspended between runners . 
As with ovens , the size of a grill or grill pan grid was not the same as its effective area ( see below ) . 
Later , and rather surreptitiously , I was shown the bathroom — a new addition , painted blue and adorned with a multitude of gold stars . 
I did not see even then why only the " gentlemen " should be allowed to enjoy all the stars . 
When the question of morning tea and baths is settled there is breakfast — in bed or downstairs ? 
Most hostesses are glad to keep a guest in bed until after breakfast ; many guests are thankful to be there , and the way the matter is broached varies . 
" Will you have your breakfast in bed ? " is the sort of gambit which frequently causes a shy guest to enter into a flutter of protest about being a nuisance ; if , however , you say : " Your breakfast will arrive at any time you like , " as though the whole thing were automatic and impersonal , it will probably help . 
Then , after you have ascertained whether it is to be tea or coffee and made sure of any other details , you can go to bed yourself , to sleep with an easy conscience . 
It is not everybody that likes to be given breakfast in bed ; on the other hand , because it is so many people 's idea of bliss , I would like to say something more about it . 
The bliss can be considerably marred if the tray is overcrowded or ill-arranged so that in order to pour out it becomes necessary to move things , to play a sort of game of chess in bed . 
Surprisingly few people lay a breakfast-tray logically and well . 
Many otherwise observant hostesses somehow overlook the fact that misery can set in if the tray is so heavy that you can hardly support it . 
They seem to forget how wretched the whole thing can be if the coffee is too weak or the tea too strong or either of them not hot enough , and that desperation can set in if any of the following things have been forgotten : salt , pepper , mustard ( when ham or sausages are served ) , soft sugar ( for grapefruit or stewed fruit ) or any of the requisite implements . 
If you are an inexperienced hostess , have a hopeless memory , are in love and therefore a bit absent-minded or tend always to be sleepy in the mornings , it is as well to make a list like the following ; keep it in the kitchen , check it and make sure that what ought to be hot is really hot and that everything looks , and is , fresh : 
Tea , hot water ; milk and sugar ( or coffee , hot — but not boiled ; milk and sugar ) . 
Toast , butter , marmalade . 
Fruit juice ( pleasantly chilled ) , or grapefruit or stewed fruit and soft sugar . 
Main dish , salt , pepper , mustard ; knife and fork , additional knife . 
Spoon for fruit , teaspoon , butter-knife ( if the butter is not in pats ) , spoon for marmalade , knife for fresh fruit ( if required ) . 
I have said nothing about flowers on the breakfast-tray — a small attention sometimes recommended . 
My feeling is that there is rarely room to spare and one is worried about upsetting a vase , while a flower out of water fidgets me personally . 
I prefer flowers in the room and never miss them on the tray ; but that 's just a personal point of view . 
Some other considerations affecting this particular form of bliss are pillows and newspapers ; an extra pillow or two , to prop one up , and at least two , if not more , morning papers will never come amiss to someone who is content to have breakfast in bed . 
The scope of downstairs breakfast — porridge , cereals , cold game , ham and a wide selection of rolls , baps and different marmalades and honey — is as wide as your purse can make it and I do n't think I need enlarge on it here . 
Many older people and quite a few of the young settle for coffee or tea and toast and fruit juice . 
Although there are points to be observed in the preparation of even so simple a repast it is hardly worth the name of breakfast . 
A good old-fashioned breakfast — and really good breakfast dishes are among the most pleasing forms of food — is appreciated by the energetic , as a prelude to a day 's walking or climbing or fishing in the holidays , or as a good basis for a day of hard work ; even on Sunday it is something to sustain you for perusal of the newspapers , though not the best aid to keeping awake during a long sermon . 
I feel that I can not let this chapter go without saying , briefly , something about the reverse side of the coin — that is to say , being a good guest . 
However much your friends love you , you can add to their pleasure in having you to stay if you observe the small courtesies . 
At the risk of sounding a bit arbitrary I am making a few suggestions . 
If you are going to arrive at a later hour than was intended , remember to telephone , and if you are going to be late for a meal , suggest that it might be more convenient if you had this at home or on the way before arrival . 
Do n't smoke in the bathroom ; do n't jump out of the bath , toes and body dripping and soaking the bath-mat , do a bit of preliminary mopping up before you get out . 
Open the window before you leave . 
Be quick on the uptake about the wishes of your hostess . 
If she has little or no domestic aid , offer to help ; if she indicates that she does not at the moment need this , go off on your own with a book or needle-work , so that she is not left with the feeling that she ought to be entertaining you . 
Quite a few of you have asked about tipping , and in these days of what might be called unconventional help problems about tips can arise . 
A nice old-fashioned housemaid , labelled by cap and apron , is easy enough ; when you leave you will give her your little present as you thank her for looking after you . 
It is the "lady who obliges " that can confound you ; on that point , the simplest way is to quietly consult your hostess . 
In the old days a young woman was not expected to tip men servants ; nowadays if a chauffeur meets you and takes you to the station , you will want to show appreciation . 
The question of " how much " is too difficult , depending as it does on the length of your stay , your purse and the help and service you receive . 
My own opinion is that the manner of giving is more important , and a young thing who remembers to say thank you in a friendly way need not worry if she can not manage great largesse . 
If it should unfortunately happen that you do not really enjoy your visit , are uncomfortable or do not like your fellow guests or the food , keep all this darkly under your hat and do n't regale your friends and acquaintances with an unfavourable if amusing narrative of your stay ; to do this is to offend against one of the canons of decent behaviour , however funny you may make the tale . 
Quite apart from the bad manners of this you may be pretty sure that your hostess will come to hear of it and then you will have been guilty of causing great hurt . 
As one greatly prejudiced may I say a word about noise ? 
Young people of the present generation have conditioned themselves to what is sometimes called background noise , and can carry on conversations , read and play games against a radio programme — even against two from different stations , without apparent inconvenience . 
Maybe it was the early training which expected a complete cessation of noise of any kind when music was being performed , that causes me and others like me to find it quite impossible to talk or listen when there is " background noise " . 
To be a little considerate about radios and gramophones and noise generally is rated highly among good manners . 
I must tell you here something amusing that happened not long ago at Winkfield . 
Charles Laughton came to spend part of a day with me . 
After dinner he read to us one or two passages from A Midsummer Night 's Dream and he rendered some of the parts — that of Bottom in particular — with bucolic overtones . 
My sitting-room is opposite two dormitory cottages , where all was plainly to be heard . 
Later on when he had gone , the night nurse , who goes the rounds about eleven o'clock , heard a radio still on in a dormitory . 
She asked the girls there to turn the radio off , saying that they were disturbing me as I was tired and had gone to bed early — to which she got the disconcerting reply : " Do n't be silly , Nurse , she 's been having dinner with Henry the Eighth . " 
6 Afternoon Tea 
LIKE BREAKFAST , this almost calls for special pleading . 
One hears it said that nobody ever eats at tea time now , except on railway trains and then only to kill time . 
But my mind wanders to holidays in Scotland or to Devonshire and leisurely teas . 
And then , when one thinks of an autumn evening , how good seems the idea of hot buttered toast or crumpets and comforting slices of cake ; how welcome they can be to those who have returned from a day 's shooting , hunting , golf , football — whatever strenuous pursuit you like . 
I do n't think afternoon tea has so far gone out of fashion that a good hostess can afford not to give it some thought . 
As cooks we wo n't concern ourselves with the four-o'clock repast of a cup of China tea and lemon , just possibly a wafer of thin bread and butter and a mere dismissing glance at the cake . 
We will leave this fashion aside and direct our attention to the question of substantial teas for hungry and even exhausted people , because such meals engage at least our culinary interest . 
We may not have many opportunities to test our skill but when they do come along we shall know what is expected of us . 
Tea , as a beverage , varies greatly in flavour according to the water with which it is made . 
Unless you are lucky and have hit at once on a blend that suits the neighbourhood in which you live , you should consult a good tea merchant and get the matter satisfactorily settled once and for all . 
This applies to both Indian and China teas . 
If of the latter you like a " smoky " blend , mention the fact when you ask advice . 
I do not know how unorthodox it may be , but I like to keep a piece of dried orange-peel in the caddy containing China tea ; purists may howl , but try it for yourself . 
Of course everyone knows about hot teapots and really boiling water , about using freshly run water in the first place and not letting it boil too long in the kettle , nevertheless these minutiae are not always properly observed ; perhaps the teapot gets heated with hot water , but is not subsequently completely emptied , and a nice little pool of tepid water receives the tea ; the water in the kettle , steaming away in a moment of pre-boiling enthusiasm , is poured over the tea a second or two too early — so the tea is horrid . 
Believe me , this is not a lot of fuss and nonsense ; the reason you hear people say "few people make really good tea " is because this " nonsense " is underrated . 
Cream is not always offered with tea , as once it was : it was usually handed separately and added to the tea in the cup . 
When this was the fashion the cups were often warmed with a little hot water to prevent them from cracking , as they sometimes do when filled straight with hot tea . 
The water was of course poured away into a tea basin . 
Milk is a different affair ; if you add milk to the tea in the cup you can get a rather " raw " taste difficult to describe ; if you put it into the cup first the scalding tea poured onto it gives a mellower taste . 
The Renovation of Shiplake Lock in Oxfordshire 
THE original lock at Shiplake dates from 1787 and was a pound lock . 
The present lock , which has now been extensively overhauled by the Thames Conservancy , was built in 1874 . 
The lock has an overall length from gate to gate of 133ft 4in , a width between rubbing strips of 18ft 3in , and an original depth over the head cill of 6ft 5in , and 5ft 6in at the tail — this latter depth now being increased to 6ft 3in . 
The lock is situated about three miles from Henley-on-Thames in Oxfordshire . 
The cills of the original lock , which have now been replaced , consisted of timber baulks spiked on a bed of heavy sleepers . 
This lock is of interest in that the quoins or corner pieces are not shaped to accommodate the heel post of the gate , but are square in section , the heel posts being hung on pintles set in front of the quoins and secured to them by iron collar straps at the top . 
A water seal is made between the heel post and the wall by means of a mitre board . 
In the renovated lock a strip of " Linatex " rubber has been incorporated in the edge of the mitre board to improve the seal . 
In common with many locks of early date , no hard floor was provided between the mass concrete lock walls , although timber baulks of substantial section were set in the earth floor to act as struts between the bases of the walls . 
Renovation , which entailed closure of the river to traffic , took place between October 31 last and February 6 this year . 
The need for a major overhaul was brought about by the deterioration of a number of factors . 
The first of these was the tilting of the headgate pintles which were progressively moving out of true alignment as the timber sleepers under the cill deteriorated . 
This caused jamming between the pintle casting and the heelpost shoe casting , a situation which required removal of these components on two occasions for machining . 
This was , however , a palliative , the effect of which was lost with continued settling of the pintles . 
Considerable leakage was also taking place under the timber sleepers and through lift construction joints in the cill wall , thus impairing the operation of the lock . 
The timber cills were also worn on their surfaces , in addition to being decayed , and had been recapped several times to ensure a tight fit between them and the gates . 
Further causes of anxiety were the decayed state of the old timber baulks bracing the toe of the lock walls and the deterioration of the lock floor . 
The site preparations for lock repairs are normally governed by absence of road access to the site and , with the river closed , it is usually necessary to bring all materials and equipment including sufficient barges for transportation of broken stone to the site before the lock is sealed off . 
In this instance , road access was available at a point some 100 yards from the lock , but separated from it by a water meadow liable to recurrent flooding and by a 60ft wide leat which formed the water course to a mill which existed near the site in earlier times . 
The preparations thus commenced with the transport by barge and erection of a 3 ton Butters luffing derrick , which commanded the body of the lock with the exception of the gate recesses . 
This crane was supplemented by a Priestman Wolf crane fitted with a 40ft boom for service at these two points , this being augmented when necessary by a 3 1/2 ton Grafton steam crane mounted on one of the barges . 
The concrete preparation plant consisted of a 15 ton Portasilo to which cement was delivered in bulk by the C.M.C. , this unit being set up in conjunction with a Parker 14/10 mixer with weighbatcher and scraper unit . 
The batching and stockpile yard was located above the general flood level , on a levelled dump of Thames ballast by the road side . 
The aggregate and sand used for the works were Kennett gravels , derived from Hall & Co. 's pit at Theale . 
Type of conveyance of concrete from the batching plant to the lock was determined by the existence of waterlogged ground and a 60ft wide leat , limited space on the lock side and the desirability of crossing the lock itself . 
Transportation was thus by means of a Road Machines Monorail system in which 12.5 cu.ft. skips are driven by a 7 1/2 b.h.p. motor and hydraulic drive . 
The skips are set in motion at the loading point and travel unattended until stopped automatically wherever a special stopping device is fitted in the rail . 
This was found to be particularly useful in that the rail was taken over the lock and along one side . 
A further section of rail was located on the other side of the lock and upon these rails was mounted a travelling bridge which traversed the lock length . 
A riser rail connected the main mono-rail system to a short length of curved rail on the bridge . 
Concrete was discharged from the skips , through openings in the floor of the carriage to a trunking system for the various sections of the work . 
Of particular importance in the scheme was the provision required to be made for a reliable drainage and pumping system . 
The work was carried out during the wet season , when high head and tail water conditions could be expected at the main cofferdams and when the ground water level would be close to surface . 
Experience on work at other locks had shown that the throttle settings of normal self-priming centrifugal pumps required constant attention to reduce the amount of time lost through the flooding of the workings . 
When pumping from a sump with a 22ft vertical suction it was found that with the setting too far advanced , or with a slackening of the inflow , the sump would be emptied and the suction lost and , whilst the priming was being regained , the water level would rapidly rise in the workings . 
Similar delays had been experienced when sudden inflows were encountered or when the pump speed fell for any reason . 
Such pumps also required to be set immediately over the lock , thus reducing the working space available . 
Past experience indicated that an inflow of up to 90,000 gallhour , might be reasonably expected and to allow for unforseen contingencies , two Sykes 8in Univacs were installed to deal with twice this capacity . 
The use of these pumps enabled a horizontal as well as vertical suction to be used , enabling the pumps to be located well clear of the working area , whilst of greatest importance was the fact that the water level in the sump remained constant at the level of the flange on the base of the suction pipe . 
The pumps were arranged to deliver to the spillway of the old mill which served as a useful collecting launder for the gravel pumped out by the Univacs . 
The pumps were powered by Ruston & Hornsby 4 VHR oil engines . 
Both pumps were used each morning for rapid dewatering . 
Thereafter one was sufficient to deal with seepage water . 
At a total head from all causes of about 30ft including a vertical lift of 22ft the inflow was well within the pump 's capacity of about 90,000 gallhour at this duty and worked for much of the time " on snore . " 
Site lighting was provided by mains electricity to enable the pumps to be started up some 2 hours before the shift began , during which time the lock was emptied of some 210,000 gallons of water which accumulated during the night . 
A pump was also run for two hours after the shift had finished to enable the concrete to set . 
The operations started with the driving of the head and tail cofferdams , Larssen No. 2 piles being used at the tail — where extra strength was required to accommodate the greater water pressure loading — pitched by the Priestman crane and driven by a No. 5 BSP steam hammer . 
Number IU Larssen piles were used for the head dam . 
At this dam , the pitching and driving were effected by the barge mounted Grafton steam crane . 
The bracing at the head dam consisted of 12in x 12in struts , braced off the wing walls of the dock . 
For the tail dam two 21in x 8 1/4in RSJ 40ft long were used , strutted from sheet piling driven into either bank . 
Baulks of Douglas fir were then wedged into position at 15ft centres along the length of the lock , this spacing being arranged to coincide with the existing vertical rubbing strips of the lock . 
These baulks were set in two tiers , the lower tier being emplaced by diver whilst the lock was still full , each baulk being temporarily weighted with a length of Larssen piling . 
With the dams completed , the wall struts in place and the Univac pumps in position , the lock was pumped out , the suction line being placed in the tail recess of the lock . 
When the water had been taken down to within a few inches of the bottom , a 5ft dia , 6ft deep sump was excavated just upstream of the tail gate recess . 
This took place inside a box of trench sheeting , 5ft dia precast concrete tube sections being used to form the sump to a depth of 4ft below the formation level which allowed 1ft 6in below the invert of drainpipes to accommodate gravel , etc . 
This box sheeting was then extended up the length of the lock in the form of a 2ft wide trench in order to drain the head of the lock , the trench being filled with hard core over drain . 
Excavation of the floor of the lock followed up the completed hard core drain in 15ft sections , the trench sheeting being removed and a 2ft thick mass concrete slab of 7.4:1 total aggregate cement ratio being emplaced to within 3ft of each wall . 
On completion of the floor , the remaining 3ft strip at the base of the walls was removed and any over excavation under the walls filled with concrete and underpinned 2ft 6in back , the last stage being the emplacement of a 30 deg batter to the walls . 
The drain was thus covered over . 
Its function during the works was to drain both the head and tail dams , the Univac holding the water level permanently at the level of the soffit . 
On completion all sumps were concreted , sealing the underdrainage system . 
Whilst this work was in progress , other repairs were being effected at the head and tail of the lock , where new cills and groins were under construction . 
The new cills consist of 31.33 lbft steel channels of 12in x 4in section , set out on new 2ft thick slabs , the channels being bolted down to their bases by Rawlbolts and secured to the step concrete behind by welded attachments to the channels . 
Repair of the lock walls consisted of cutting back the old face to a depth of some 2 1/2in with chipping hammers and then refacing with gunite to a depth of 2in over a B.R.C. reinforcing fabric . 
New tail gates were fabricated in the Reading workshops and delivered by water . 
The new gates have three sluices to each gate , whilst the original head gates , which carried four sluices to each gate , were overhauled , these gates being only 7 to 8 years old . 
The paddles controlling the sluices have been converted to hydraulic operation , along with the gate movement . 
The hydraulic equipment for the control and operation of the two pairs of lock gates was required to be capable of being operated either under power by the lock keeper from local control pedestals located near each pair of gates or manually from the same pedestals by members of the general public , after the lock keeper 's working hours . 
This requirement has been met by the provision of hydraulic power equipment in the lock house , this equipment supplying a pressure supply to the pedestals ( which may , however , generate their own pressure supply by means of a handwheel operated transmitter ) . 
THE OUTLOOK FOR RATING By B. A. WILLIAMS , F.I.M.T.A. , F.S.A.A. , A.R.V.A. 
"If we want to retain a value of land and buildings as the criterion by which local expenditure is apportioned amongst the local inhabitants , why should we not forget rental values and use , instead , capital values ? " 
This is the highly interesting suggestion put forward in this article , supported by arguments based on the increasing difficulty and unreality of present methods and on advantages claimed for the alternative proposal . 
IN 1601 the churchwardens and overseers of every parish were charged with the duty of setting the poor to work and of relieving those unable to work . 
To provide the wherewithal for the performance of this duty they were empowered to tax every inhabitant and occupier of lands . 
Rental Values 
It was not until 1836 that the basis of assessment was defined by statute . 
The Parochial Assessments Act of that year stated that all rates were to be based on the rent at which rateable hereditaments might reasonably be expected to let from year to year . 
This basis has continued to apply ever since , although some of the devices needed to achieve the desired end have amply justified the classification of the valuer 's work as an art rather than as a science . 
Thus we have the " contractor 's theory , " the " profits basis " , and other tortuous methods which often appear to the uninitiated merely to provide a pseudo-scientific way of justifying valuations preconceived on more mundane bases . 
Nevertheless the number of cases in which assessments could not be related reasonably directly to factual rental evidence has so far not been so great as to render the whole system suspect , although since the war it has been found necessary to resort to 1939 values in order to maintain this position . 
Admittedly extensive rent control has severely limited the number of " true " rents available to the valuer , but the conception of the "hypothetical tenant " has enabled the limitations to be overcome . 
Immediate Problems 
The time has now arrived when 1939 values can have no possible relevance to those of the 1960s . 
If we are to have another revaluation , the problem must be faced of determining up-to-date values for dwellings as well as for non-residential properties . 
Especially is this so because over 86 per cent . 
of the rateable properties in England and Wales are dwellings . 
The extent of the problem is shown by the figures disclosed on February 23 , 1959 , during the second reading of the Rating and Valuation Bill which postponed the next revaluation until 1963 : — 
It was stated that , in order to undertake the work of revaluation with confidence , the Inland Revenue Valuation Office needed satisfactory rental evidence from a sample of 10 per cent . 
of the total dwellings . 
That percentage , it was thought , might be achieved in time for 1963 . 
No doubt it will be in some areas and for some types of property , but the view would seem to be rather too sanguine so far as many areas are concerned — for example where there is a large proportion of relatively modern houses . 
Whether this will prove to be the case is , however , only a matter of short-term interest . 
The important question is whether there will be sufficient rental evidence to enable any subsequent revaluations to be carried out . 
What are the prospects of this ? 
Future Problems 
Since 1939 practically no new houses have been built for letting except by public bodies and the continuing growth of the building society movement , hampered though it has been by limited available funds , indicates that owner-occupation is what most people prefer ( or are forced into ) . 
The February 1961 White Paper on " Housing in England and Wales " ( Cmd. 1290 ) sums up the prospects when it says : — 
" House purchase , stimulated by a higher average standard of living than this country has ever before enjoyed , and assisted financially by the House Purchase and Housing Act of 1959 , is spreading rapidly , and the urge for home-ownership shows no sign of diminishing . " 
The Government 's latest intention is to encourage the provision of more houses to let . 
The White Paper says : — 
" As an experiment the Government propose to make arrangements under which money will be advanced to approved non-profit-making housing associations which are prepared to build houses to let at economic rents . 
They regard this as essentially a pump-priming operation and hope that it will serve to show the way to the investment of private capital once again in building houses to let . " 
The first part of this idea will no doubt encourage non-profit-making enterprises to produce some houses to let , but the rents to be charged , as in the case of rents of local authority houses , are unlikely to provide an appropriate basis for rating assessments . 
If there is no profit motive on the part of the landlord such rents can not be expected to equal " the figure at which the hypothetical landlord and tenant would ... come to terms ... as a result of " the higgling of the market " . " 
( Robinson Case , 1937 . ) 
As a " pump-priming " operation the potential of the Government 's proposals is more uncertain . 
No doubt the relaxation of rent restrictions will to some extent encourage the building of houses to let although , for many reasons , the old idea of investing one 's money in this sort of security is , and will probably remain , unfashionable . 
The present trend is towards owner-occupied dwellings , leaving only local authorities and non-profit-making associations to provide for those unable or unwilling to buy their own houses . 
If the trend continues the time must come when the remnant of privately let houses will be insufficient to provide a basis for ascertaining standards of rents such as are needed to assess rateable values which comply with the existing definition . 
It seems reasonable to suppose that the stage will soon be reached at which only flats and a minority of smaller houses will provide any acceptable rental evidence . 
Even in the rents of these properties a " scarcity " element must be expected . 
Whatever criticisms may be levelled against rating as the means of local taxation no better alternative has so far found general acceptance . 
If local government is to retain any semblance of autonomy ( and as a bulwark of democracy this must surely be necessary ) it must have its own independent source of locally based income . 
Without exploring the wide realms of argument on this subject , it is probably fair to say that the majority of informed people would agree with Mrs. Hicks who , in her " Public Finance , " said that " In principle ... a tax on land and buildings ( which is by far the most common of all local taxes ) has much to commend it . " 
Unless in the future we are to rely on assessments of a purely arbitrary nature ( which will inevitably bring the system into even greater disrepute ) we must find some way out of the apparent impasse . 
A Solution 
An abortive attempt was made to meet the difficulty in the Local Government Act , 1948 , when it was proposed to ascertain the " rental values " of most post-1918 houses by taking 5 per cent . 
of the hypothetical 1938 cost of construction , plus 5 per cent . 
of site costs . 
This proposal courted almost certain failure for two reasons : — 
( 1 ) Its arbitrary nature ; 
( 2 ) the different treatment accorded to other classes of dwellings and properties . 
But why must we strive to ascertain some illusory rental value when , in the market , such rental value is rarely to be found ? 
If we want to retain a value of land and buildings as the criterion by which local expenditure is apportioned amongst the local inhabitants , why should we not forget rental values and use , instead , capital values ? 
These are obviously much more easily ascertainable because the sales market is so much more active than the lettings market . 
Would it not be a relatively simple matter ( compared with the present dubious antics ) to arrive at the price at which a hereditament might reasonably be expected to sell with vacant possession in the open market if it were reasonably maintained and intended to be used for its present purposes ? 
Not a Site Value Tax 
Such a proposal should not be confused with the rating of site values , a subject which appears to have become entangled with other considerations . 
The suggestion now made need have no party political implications because it need not affect the incidence of local taxation as between occupiers and owners . 
Unoccupied sites could be exempt , partially exempt or wholly chargeable — these are questions irrelevant to the main idea . 
The suggested capital values would be simpler to ascertain than site values because the question of apportioning an aggregate value between the site and the building would not arise . 
Further , we are talking about the selling price , a factor understood by everybody , and not some notional apportionment of it . 
The authors of both the majority and the minority reports of the Committee of Inquiry into the Rating of Site Values ( 1952 ) seem to have been obsessed by the idea of annual rental value , for both reports speak of " the annual site value " ( i.e. the yearly rent which the site might be expected to yield if let at the valuation date upon a perpetual tenure ) . 
Not a Capital Levy 
Although assessments would be based on capital values , the rate would not be a tax on capital because the liability would not be met out of capital . 
Nor would it fall on , or be passed on to , the owner of the capital if he were not also the occupier , any more than do present rates . 
All that is suggested is that capital instead of annual values should be used as the measure of each ratepayer 's contribution . 
Advantages 
A minor advantage of such a basis of assessment would be a psychological one — the rate in the pound payable , instead of being the frightening figure of over 20s. in the £ , would be reduced to a few pence in the £ . 
Another advantage would be that the " contractor 's test , " the " profits basis " and the other hypotheses now forced on valuers would cease to be needed . 
From a ratepayer 's point of view , he would have some solid facts more readily available to enable him to contest an assessment . 
He could get a fair idea of the worth of his house by looking in the estate agents ' windows . 
Where can he possibly obtain any convincing data about his rental value now ? 
Although some shift in the burden between the occupiers of different types of property may result , this would be no greater , and conceiveably it would be smaller , than that to be faced in bringing rent-based values up to date . 
Ratepayers would certainly be able to understand their assessments more clearly than those based on mythical rents and , as a result , would be better able to appreciate the soundness of those assessments . 
Some change must come . 
Hand-to-mouth methods of making the present system rumble along can not be perpetuated . 
The surprising thing is that successive Governments have been content to manipulate an impossible system for so long . 
It is seriously suggested that the method proposed might provide the solution . 
LONDON 'S PURE WATER 
Bacterial analysis has shown that during the year 1960 the water for which the Metropolitan Water Board was responsible was virtually free from { escherichia coli , the chief indication of faecal pollution . 
A report by the Water Examination Committee of the Board states that 99.97 per cent . 
of the samples passing into the distribution system during the year were free from this organism . 
These are the best results ever achieved by the Board . 
During nine of the twelve months , moreover , the water supplied by the Board was of 100 per cent . 
purity so far as this test was concerned . 
ILLUMINATED SIGNS MANUFACTURERS CRITICAL OF PLANNING AUTHORITIES ' APPROACH 
AN attractively illustrated brochure entitled Pageant or Penumbra ? recently published by the Electrical Sign Manufacturers ' Association invites planning authorities to exercise more flexibility of attitude towards the design and siting of illuminated signs when dealing with planning applications , and states that the Association 's members are ready to respond whole-heartedly to a lead for greater originality and a more venturesome spirit . 
Twenty-First Annual Sale Gill 's Growingly-Popular Event 
JOHN H. Gill &Sons ( Leeming Bar ) , Ltd. , Leeming Bar , Northallerton , Yorks. , recently celebrated their 21st annual sale of second-hand machinery . 
To mark the event a dinner dance was held at the Scotch Corner Hotel and upwards of 200 farmers , friends , and staff were present . 
While it was a second-hand machinery sale that was celebrated , the main feature in the ballroom was a new Massey-Ferguson tractor , which shone quite brilliantly under the spotlight . 
We understand that , while it excited much attention , it did not intrude in any way on the dancing . 
Mr. John H. Gill , the founder of the firm , together with his sons , Messrs. John Arthur , Robert William , and Frank ( who are all in the business ) , were , naturally , much in demand , as was Mr. John Sterne , of York , the Massey-Ferguson area manager . 
The highest price obtained at the sale itself was £1,000 for a combine , while a tractor sold for £400 . 
We are informed that these sales are proving growingly successful , there being four times as much machinery at this last one compared with the first . 
Standen Expansion 
SUCH is the demand for the sugar beet harvesting and other machinery manufactured by F. A. Standen & Sons Ltd. , Ely , Cambs. , that they are already having an extension built to their new factory , and our illustration shows the progress that is being made in this latest enterprise . 
Wallace 's Become Fordson Dealers Directors at Signing Ceremony 
THE signing of a Fordson tractor main dealer agreement between John Wallace & Sons ( Ayr ) , Ltd. , Ayr , and the tractor division of the Ford Motor Co. , Ltd. , Dagenham , Essex , took place recently . 
The sales operations manager of the tractor division , Mr. M. MacDonald , was present — as our photograph shows — to greet two directors of Messrs. Wallace , Mr. J. Thompson and Mr. D. K. Henderson . 
This Scottish company has been actively engaged in the tractor business since 1924 , but its history goes back into the 18th century . 
The trading area served is one of small , well-managed farms , largely specialising in milk production and growing early potatoes . 
Both directors believe in the closest personal contact with their customers . 
A large proportion of their business is conducted weekly at premises in Ayr 's busy market . 
Lively Interest in Irrigation At Aberdeen Conference 
A ONE-DAY conference on irrigation , with the emphasis on organic irrigation , held at Westertown , nr . 
Aberdeen , on May 11th , drew an attendance of over 600 people . 
It was sponsored by Farrow & Sons , Ltd. , Spalding , Lincs. , and organised by Barclay , Ross & Hutchinson , Ltd. , of Aberdeen . 
Undoubtedly , a factor contributing largely to the success of the conference was that it was held on the farm of Mr. Maitland Mackie , Jun. , where a complete organic irrigation system is installed as part of a large-scale slatted floor arrangement for dairy and beef herds . 
The first of the speakers , Mr. Gordon Newman , manager of Reading University farm , confined his comments mainly to water irrigation . 
He emphasised the importance of trying to anticipate " irrigation need , " aired the view that in parts of Scotland irrigation is not an economic proposition , and roundly declared that " irrigation is no excuse for poor cultivations and inadequate manuring . " 
Mr. Trevor Garbett , general manager of Farrow &Sons , Ltd. , put the case for organic irrigation and naturally pointed to the " object lessons " to be learned from Mr. Mackie 's installation . 
He claimed that organic irrigation fitted in with slatted floors , and went on to say that poultry houses , especially batteries , " presented no problem . " 
He added that " sheep stored on slats are treated the same as cattle on slats . " 
Another point advanced by Mr. Garbett was that his firm recommended the use of a piston pump for organic irrigation , although under certain circumstances a centrifugal pump might do the job . 
Although with a piston pump , it was necessary to be fairly careful about what went into the pit , a great deal more could go in with "little chance of any harm to the system " than could be allowed with a centrifugal pump . 
The economics of organic and water irrigation systems — always an important matter — were presented by Mr. John Nix , of Cambridge University School of Agriculture . 
He acknowledged that the basic costs of organic irrigation could be " fairly high , " but stressed the economic benefits derived in the way of manurial value and labour saving . 
Practical experience over the last two years with an organic irrigation system in the West Country , i.e. , at Ilminster , Somerset , was given by Mr. David Hawthorne . 
He believed the system to be worthwhile because it got rid of the slurry , avoided wheel damage to the land , prevented river pollution , stopped the " awful waste " of nutrients , and thus enabled the farm to keep up a good level of production . 
The final word — an important one — came from Mr. David Soutar , farm buildings adviser at the North of Scotland College . 
He urged that farmers should adopt a more progressive and positive attitude towards buildings in order to derive full advantage of the " many new technical developments now being designed . " 
But , Mr. Soutar added , " economy in labour in farm buildings is far less likely to be achieved through planning than by 100 per cent . 
mechanisation , although the mass handling of stock and crop will continue to be developed , and the same basic principles of automation as now practised in industry will be adopted on the farm . " 
Lundell " 605 " Latest " Double-Chop " Forage-Harvester 
IT is the snowballing interest in the mechanical feeding of livestock in various ways , mostly of American genesis , that lies behind the introduction of a new " double-chop " forage-harvester , demonstrated publicly for the first time on May 15th . 
The Lundell "605 " off-set machine was originally shown by Lundell ( Great Britain ) , Ltd. , Edenbridge , Kent , at the last Smithfield Show ( Dec. , p. 1170 ) , and is really the John Deere " 15A , " which the British company is manufacturing under licence . 
We saw it at work in a fine crop of Italian rye grass " H.1 " mixture , about 2ft. high , on Mr. A. S. Cray 's Southdown Farm , Medstead , nr . 
Alton , Hants . 
The two rows of 16 specially-designed " grapefruit " flail knives on the " 605 " took the grass cleanly at about 2in. above ground , the width of cut being 60in . 
From those knives the crop was whisked into a 12in. dia. auger , housed above the flails , and eventually proffered to the secondary cutting assembly — which is also the fan . 
There are usually six cutting knives on this assembly , as on the present occasion , but three can be removed for coarser results . 
The length of the material varied from fragments of 1/2in. up to 4in. , and the average is said to be 2in . 
The power requirement is about the same as for the well-known "Super 60 " machine , and a Fordson " Dexta " had no difficulty in second gear , although a larger tractor would be needed for the fastest speeds of work . 
At £450 , the price is £55 up on the conventional flail machine . 
The shorter lengths of grass , however , allow easier handling by forage blowers , silo unloaders , auger feeders , side-unloading trailers and other associated equipment for the new techniques . 
But the material also handles well with a fore-loader , it is said , and has zero grazing possibilities as well . 
Haymaking and wilting can be provided for by bolting back a hinged section in the top of the auger housing . 
Consequently the crop flies straight over the auger and on to the field . 
Messrs. Lundell say they are working on a maize attachment , but it will probably not be ready until 1962 . 
Co-operating in the demonstration were the local Lundell dealers , Hyde Abbey Motor Works , Ltd. , Winchester . 
( Reply Card No . 
E. 1132 ) . 
Massey-Ferguson Tractors with Foot-Pedal Direction Change Torque Converter Models Join Industrial Range 
CHANGING direction from forward to reverse purely by using the right foot is a feature of two of the tractors in the extended industrial range of Massey-Ferguson , Ltd. , Coventry . 
This is done by combining " shuttle transmissions " with torque converters . 
There are altogether four new tractors and some other modifications and introductions . 
One of the innovations is a basic power unit , called the " 203 " tractor , on which the now established " 710 " digger and an improved " 702 " loader can be mounted . 
The " 203 " which succeeds the " 702 " tractor , incorporates the Perkins " 3-A-152 " diesel engine , with a maximum gross b.h.p. of 38.4 , and the transmission and back axle of the "65 " tractor . 
A particular quality of the engine is said to be good lugging power at low revs. per min. — a very necessary requirement of the construction industry . 
Torque characteristics are excellent and power steering is fitted as standard . 
This latter provision cuts down operator fatigue considerably . 
" Topping-up " is now much easier , for the regular points are accessible when the bonnet cover is lifted . 
There is a rugged 11in. -dia. dual clutch and the clutch assembly is self-ventilated . 
Transmission brakes of the disc variety operate together or independently , with complete sealing against dirt and water . 
Heavy cast wheels are employed instead of the previous steel disc ones . 
In spite of these improvements the price remains at £880 . 
When this basic unit is known as the " 205 , " the change of name indicates that it has both a torque converter and the "instant reverse " foot-operated direction change system . 
The " instant reversing " is actuated by an unusual accelerator , rather like a three-pronged fork , the centre prong being shorter than those outside , with a foot pedal at each extremity . 
Pressure on the right of the pedals , as they face the driver , produces forward motion , while if the reverse direction is required , the left pedal is depressed instead , at which the tractor instantly goes into reverse . 
Operating either side-pedal rotates , by a linkage device , a rocker valve , because of which oil from the control valve is directed to the clutch units in a " shuttle transmission " unit situated between the torque converter and a sliding mesh gear-box . 
The pedals act first as a clutch and then as a throttle . 
The centre pedal does not rotate the rocker valve . 
As a result , its only effect is to increase engine revolutions without vehicle motion in any direction . 
On this tractor there are two levers , each with two "in-gear " positions , providing 4 gears forward and reverse . 
Another tractor incorporating the torque converter and this novel transmission is the " 65R , " one of the two new industrial versions of the " 65 , " the other being the " 65S . " 
These have the " 4-A-203D " Perkins engine and 58.3 gross maximum b.h.p . 
While the " 65S " with its more normal transmission has 6 forward gears and 2 reverse , the " 65R , " like the "205 , " has 4 forward and reverse . 
Prices of these two versions make interesting comparison : the "65S " is £950 ex works , complete with dual brakes , horn and mirror , while the " 65R " is £1,150 with the same accessories . 
Operating a tractor with the " instant reverse " facility is almost literally " child 's play . " 
On any job requiring much stopping and starting — such as loading shale — it is a boon to have both hands free for the steering wheel and hydraulic loader , and the speed achieved by skilled operators is remarkable . 
The centre pedal can " rev. " the engine to increase the speed at which the bucket lifts . 
Brakes are on the side of the left foot and there is , of course , no clutch . 
" Instant reversing " has been in America for about three years , many applications being in road rolling . 
Another alteration in the range is that the hydraulics in the " 702 " loader are now of " Cessna " design and the break-away force consequently increases from 10,000 to 14,000lb . 
The American Cessna company is reported to be about to start production in Scotland , where it will assemble this hydraulic equipment . 
The side frames of the " 702 " bucket have also been modified to enable it to fit on to the " 203 . " 
There is a new weight attachment , which we saw fitted on the rear of the " 65R " ; it carries 15 iron weights of 122lb. each . 
A sub-soiling attachment , on which a cable-laying fixture can be bolted , is now available for the "35S " and " 35H " industrial tractors , which are now painted yellow and grey . 
LADY GROCER ATTACKS APATHY IN THE GROUPS Many shops still ugly and dirty 
Not keen on promotions 
They think group trading means a comfortable living for years 
MRS . 
ESTHER BEDDIS and her husband Roy are grocers on the Fairfield housing estate , near Fareham , Hampshire . 
They are enthusiastic members of Star Value Service . 
Mrs. Beddis is outspoken about group trading , but more outspoken about some of the retailers who are in a group and merely dabble with this form of trading . 
" For some time , " she says , "I have been worried about the future of many independent retailers who have joined voluntary groups and , after a few months of membership , have been disappointed that increased turnover has not come to them . 
They have become discouraged with their lot and retailing in general and make no efforts to pull themselves out of this rut . 
" This state exists because many independent grocers soon forget the reasons they joined a group — and they forget their obligations . 
They seem to think that the trade owes them something because they have taken the first steps of joining a group ; hanging an illuminated sign in their window ( very rarely illuminated after dark ) and spasmodically slap various bills on their windows announcing special offers . 
Pipe Dreams 
All this , they think , will double their turnover in a few months so that they and their families can live in comfort in years to come . 
Many with such pipe dreams have already gone further downhill and , sometimes , out of business . 
The others have learned their lesson in time and are now doing well . " 
To cite their own case , Mrs. Beddis told The Grocer of their experiences in this respect . 
Nothing Startling 
They took a small grocery shop on the housing estate back in 1947 . 
For many years they jogged along happily , without anything startling happening to their trade . 
To put it in her own words : " We did not see any real change in the grocery world as nothing ever happened to change our trading progress . " 
This idyllic state of affairs existed until March , 1960 — not so long ago — when the couple began to notice that some of their customers were no longer coming in , but were making the 3d. bus ride into neighbouring Fareham and buying a week 's groceries at the recently opened supermarkets and large multiples there . 
Then the co-operative store — just two doors away from them — started cutting prices and making many special offers . 
The Beddises ' turnover dropped by £280 a week and kept sliding . 
Fortunately , they decided quickly to do something about it and joined the buying group operated by William Avens and Co. , the Portsmouth wholesalers . 
The company immediately advised them to change from counter service to self-selection . 
" The cost of conversion , " said Mrs. Beddis " was negligible . 
We used the existing shelves and fixtures . " 
Up Went Turnover 
Through the medium of better pricing and easier service turnover quickly rose by £50 . 
In November , 1960 , they joined the Star Value Service group , formed in the Portsmouth area under William Avens — by then a Misselbrook and Weston subsidiary . 
Immediately , special offers were started and they were given more assistance with ideas for efficient merchandising and profitable promotions . 
Even so , although business slowly increased and turnover steadily rose until it was around £500 by September this year , they still felt the need to enlarge the shop to display and sell to better advantage . 
This posed special problems concerning future prosperity . 
Would it be worth while expanding — as to ascertain what lay ahead in relation to increased business was most difficult ? 
They finally decided to go ahead . 
The Costly Item 
Doubling the selling space to 700 sq . 
ft. by adding a new section of over 300 sq . 
ft. was not to be the greatest expense . 
It was the new fixtures and fittings to fill this space that would be costly . 
But Roy Beddis solved this problem by building all the new sectional shelving , eight dump bins , and the large gondola from materials he bought for a total of £50 . 
The new self-service refrigerator cost £200 and the alterations to the building cost £1,000 . 
All in all , total cost was £1250 . 
Up Curtain ! 
After the painters had left , three of Avens ' men put the finishing touches to the new shop , but all this time business was as usual with the alterations hidden by curtains . 
The curtains were drawn back on September 21 and the response was immediate . 
The first week 's takings up to the present show an increase of £100 per week — making well over £600 per week . 
When more money is available , Mr. and Mrs. Beddis will extend the shop even further and take in the present storeroom . 
" We Must Take the Burden Out of Everyday Shopping " 
" As all retailers know , " Mrs. Beddis goes on , " customers do n't come to look at a pretty shop . 
But a pretty shop does lend itself to cleanliness and brightness . 
Not only is it these two things that customers want , but they also want well-priced special offers and we private retailers must take the burden out of everyday shopping and make it as easy as we can for these shoppers in case we lose their custom . 
Direct Promotions 
"One facet of in-store trading often overlooked , " she goes on , " is special promotions . 
Our wholesaler often arranges these for Star Value members and , in addition , the large manufacturers will often assist with a direct promotion . 
The first week in October , we ran the Brooke Bond Win-A-Toy Competition — ideal for children living on the Fairfield Estate . 
Mr. Hawkins , the Brooke Bond rep. , spent the entire week in the shop , and with attractive display material and toys attracting customers in , sales of tea trebled to over 150 lb. in one week . 
" Is n't that an incentive to try nearly all the promotions that are offered — whether they be soup , canned fruit , Christmas , or tea promotions ? 
We retailers must team with our wholesaler or the manufacturer to grab the trade that is there . 
The tragic part is that so many do n't bother to consider promotions and sometimes even regard special offers as a waste of time . 
A Negligible Expense 
" Often group window signs are not lit at night even though all-night illumination costs only pennies . 
A large number of shops are still ugly , cluttered and dirty . 
Little wonder so many housewives will gladly pay bus fares of as much as 3s. to save only 3s. on their order and still not worry because they are dealing with clean , bright shops . 
( The Beddis ' store is pictured right . ) 
" Perhaps I have been fortunate in having a father who was a wholesale confectioner , " Mrs. Beddis continued , " and having been in the grocery business since I left school . 
But experience is not enough these days , and many successful retailers with no grocery experience are prospering for the simple reason they have grasped every opportunity to draw customers into their shops and once those customers have come , then they have been sold goods at attractive prices from a clean , bright shop and by enterprising grocers who are good salesmen . 
" "The total market for baby foods can look forward to an expansion of some 10 per cent . 
in the next 15 years from the expected increases in the number of babies alone " Baby Foods : Thriving Market 
THE market and prospects for baby foods have again come under the scrutiny of the Economist Intelligence Unit , which is responsible for so much contemporary research in many fields , not least those associated with the grocery trade . 
In December , 1959 , EIU in No. 22 of their publication " Retail Business " examined the market , and in the latest issue — No. 44 , October — the research is brought up to date . 
The extracts which we are privileged to give below are but a small part of the whole , which should be examined closely by all who are concerned in the vital and growing market for baby foods . 
" Retail Business " may be had only from the Economist Intelligence Unit , 5 Bury-street , London , SW1 . 
SIZE OF THE MARKET Milk Products 
The major trend in this market says " Retail Business , " is the swing away from National Dried Milk towards proprietary products and there is clearly scope for considerable further expansion in the sales of branded dried milk . 
This trend was accelerated by an increase in price of the National product in April , 1957 . 
It is apparent from the substantial sales of proprietary dried milk and the fact that uptake of welfare milk ( liquid and dried ) is very close to 100 per cent . 
that many mothers are taking welfare liquid milk and using it for the rest of the family while they feed their babies on proprietary dried milk . 
Glaxo Laboratories ' Ostermilk and Cow and Gate infant milk food have been the main beneficiaries of the swing to branded products . 
These two brands dominate the market for proprietary dried milk of which they probably have some 45 per cent . 
each . 
The most important remaining brands are Trufood ( made , like Cow and Gate , by a member of the Unigate Group ) and SMA . 
The latter is a filled milk product , formulated to resemble human milk . 
The formula is owned by the Wyeth Research Laboratories , Philadelphia , and the product , which has been on the UK market since 1956 , is marketed here by John Wyeth and Brothers . 
The remaining 25 per cent . 
or so of bottle-fed babies are given either evaporated milk or boiled fresh milk ... 
The total market for evaporated milk is worth some £13 million a year and possibly only one per cent . 
of this is used for infant feeding . 
However , sales of evaporated milk for infant feeding are rising , and it is impossible to ignore the fact that in North America this is the accepted food for bottle-fed babies ... 
A major marketing problem confronting the processors of evaporated milk is that , as the market for their product as a general purpose food is so much more important at present than sales for infant feeding , they are wary of damaging the family image of their product by promoting it too heavily as an infant food . 
As a result , sales of evaporated milk as an infant food are likely to expand only very gradually . 
The largest brands of evaporated milk are Carnation ( General Milk Products ) , Libby , Ideal ( Nestle2 ) and Regal ( Unigate ) . 
General Milk Products have pioneered the use of evaporated milk for infant feeding in this country and they claim that Carnation milk accounts for virtually all the sales in this market . 
Carnation has been available in the UK since 1946 , but the main marketing effort dates only from 1954 with the removal of restrictions on sales . 
WEANING CEREALS 
It is estimated that some 9.6 thousand tons of infant cereals are consumed a year and the retail value of the market is £2.8 million ... 
The scope for expansion in the future seems more limited : it will come mainly from the continuing rise in the birth rate and possibly also from persuading mothers to keep babies on these specially fortified cereals longer in life . 
The leading brands in this market are Farley 's Rusks ( made by Farley 's Infant Food ) , with possibly one-third of the total turnover , and Farex ( made by Glaxo Laboratories ) with between one-third and one-quarter of the total sales . 
The next most important brands , in order , are the range of cereals produced by Robinsons ( a member of the Colman group ) , including mixed cereal , rice , a triple pack , groats and barley , and those produced by Scott 's ( a member of the Cerebos group ) . 
Other brands include Cow and Gate , Trufood and Ovaltine Chuckles . 
The products above represent three different approaches to the infant cereal market , and in each sector of this market one brand is dominant . 
Farley 's have a very strong hold on the market for a weaning cereal in rusk form , quick and convenient to use . 
Glaxo 's Farex dominates the market for a blended and fortified cereal , designed primarily to provide a sound nutritional basis for the baby 's diet . 
Robinson 's products , of which Baby Rise is one of the most successful , provide variety in flavour and texture for the child . 
Sole { Bonne Femme , Slimy Fish , and Ballet of Waiters ! 
Which was the more important — sole { bonne femme correctly served in a restaurant or slimy fish on a hospital trolley ? 
Is the restaurant ballet of waiters really necessary ? 
Surely a good case could be made out for a simpler form of service , as was being practised with success abroad ? 
These pertinent questions and points of view were put forward by Miss E. Hollings , principal of Manchester Domestic and Trades College , when she welcomed about 100 delegates to the first one-day conference in the north of England of the Catering Teachers ' Association , at Manchester . 
First rate catering schools and colleges encourage students of a higher educational standard to consider the catering industry as a worthwhile career , she said . 
But salaries paid in the catering industry were appallingly low , having regard to the many skills required . 
There were not sufficient of the right type of courses for caterers . 
She thought the hotel and restaurant industry put too much emphasis on the commercial aspects , such as foreign currency earning . 
Civilised Man 
Civilisation of man was closely associated with his search for food and was closely tied to agricultural science . 
It would not be surprising to see changes in catering to match the modern mood . 
Mr. L. Ambery ( Manchester Domestic and Trades College ) introduced a discussion on the teaching of general studies to catering students . 
He said that in technical education he thought not enough time was given to general subjects . 
Taking the country as a whole 80 per cent of 15 year olds were receiving education but only 28 per cent of 19 year olds were receiving any form of education . 
It was important this last figure should be increased . 
In the last five years there had been a 70 per cent expansion in technical education . 
Present methods of induction of students were a nightmare . 
They were given no real guidance and were often pushed into classes that were not well suited to their purpose . 
There was need for closer liaison between the technical schools and the secondary modern schools and opportunity should be given for student interviews to ensure they were embarking on the technical courses which would serve them best in the future . 
There must also be a better staffing ratio — 16 students to one teacher in a kitchen were too many , he considered . 
Preliminary courses should always include the practical approach to the subject , otherwise the students would regard them as " just another school " and soon lose interest . 
General subjects should always be related to the craft or vocational subjects . 
In too many cases these were taught in an atmosphere of splendid isolation . 
Too often twelve students were required to establish an evening class and as a result unsuitable candidates were accepted to make up the required number . 
Often only three of the twelve students passed the examination , the reason for the poor results being that the basic composition of the class was wrong in the first place . 
Science Subjects 
Miss A. Wordingham ( in charge of applied science subjects at Domestic and Trades College ) discussed the teaching of science subjects to catering students . 
So often , she said , students questioned the value of science lessons . 
The best way of holding the students ' interest was to adopt the topic method . 
What was learned in the laboratory must be integrated in the kitchen . 
It was important that the science teacher should have taken a catering course just as much as the catering teacher should have taken an applied science course . 
The new syllabus for the City and Guilds 151 examination was reviewed from the examiners ' viewpoint by Miss G. Smith ( chief examiner ) . 
At question time several teachers suggested that City and Guilds examiners should attend a meeting or lecture in order to establish greater uniformity amongst examiners . 
In general discussion the question of provision of food for practical cooking tuition was raised . 
It was stated that more authorities were providing raw materials free , but there were still too many areas where students had to provide the food or where teachers had to collect money to pay for it . 
The conference was informed that the Catering Teachers ' Association now has a membership of more than 300 . 
" Now is Time for Corporation to Pronounce Bold Plan for Town " 
" It is surely time that Southend Corporation pronounced a bold plan for this town to be in the forefront of seaside resorts , and not to quote what is becoming an old cliche — " that people now take their holidays abroad . " 
"We are quite fully aware that an ever-increasing number of the population go abroad for their holidays , but we are even more aware that an even greater proportion of the population take no holidays at all , and they are the untapped source which we should endeavour to attract . " 
With these words , Mr. E. G. W. Scott concludes his general secretary 's report , to be presented at the annual general meeting of Southend , Westcliff-on-Sea and District Hotel and Catering Association on Monday next , October 30 . 
The " fight , " which had been going on for the last 12 years to get Southend recognised as a seaside resort , was still proceeding , he comments . 
Membership had remained steady during that time , and even today they were able to accommodate a conference of 500-600 people in first class establishments in the town . 
It now appeared that the Cliffs Pavilion would open in 1963 after a long struggle — something members now viewed with mixed feelings , as a large conference of over 1,000 delegates could not be accommodated in hotels . 
From returns sent in by members , it was revealed that 63,351 visitors had stayed in the town from April to September , including an ever-increasing number of old aged pensioners . 
Illuminations still drew considerable numbers . 
Evidence was that period holiday visitors did not include a very high proportion of young people , no doubt due to a lack of entertainment , thinks Mr. Scott . 
" During this current season we have had instances of visitors leaving their hotels earlier than the date to which they had booked , simply because they had seen all the films , been to the concert party and Palace Theatre , and there was nothing else to do . " 
The Airport continued to produce an increasing number of one-night bookings . 
Mr. Scott feels that the British Hotels and Restaurants Association is now taking more interest in the affairs of the boarding house and small private hotel than formerly , and he pays tribute to the work of Miss D. E. Cockrell on the South Eastern divisional committee and also for her publicity work . 
He thanks , too , Lt.-Col. E. G. Petter , their president for the last three years , and reveals that the annual banquet on Tuesday , February 27 , may take the form of a Belgian evening . 
Approval at Liverpool 
The first two stages of a three-tier plan by Mr. Charles Clore to redevelop at a cost of £30 million a large area of the centre of Liverpool facing the waterfront has been approved in principle . 
The first two phases which may take between five and seven years to complete will consist of traffic-free shopping precincts , departmental stores , modern offices , and a multi-storey garage . 
The third phase , which originally included a luxury waterfront hotel , will be considered when the sites have been acquired . 
Northern H.C.I. Dinner Told of New Hotel Plan 
The chairman of the northern branch of the Hotel and Catering Institute , Mr. John E. Dean , drew a statement from the Lord Mayor of Newcastle on the city 's proposed hotel , when he proposed the toast of the guests at the branch 's annual dinner-dance in the Royal Station Hotel , Newcastle . 
Winding up a witty speech , Mr. Dean complimented the Lord Mayor on the rapid development of the city . 
Its ever-changing skyline would soon include a new hotel , he hoped . 
Replying , the Lord Mayor , Dr. Henry Russell , said it was quite true the City Council had planned for a hotel . 
He did not think he would be revealing any secrets in saying it was to be at the corner of Eldon Place and Percy Street , a fine central site . 
It was hoped the hotel would provide an entirely new focus for that whole area . 
The Lord Mayor then went on to praise the high standard being attained by the caterers of Tyneside . 
He said the " Geordie " had always been recognised as a craftsman in shipbuilding and engineering , yet many people seemed to find it surprising that he was also a craftsman in cookery . 
Caterer 's Initiative 
It was the caterers of Tyneside under Mr. Thomas Lonsdale ( past chairman of the branch ) who took the initiative in the establishment of a catering section in the Newcastle College of Further Education . 
" I have had experience of the students ' cooking there , and I feel quite sure they will make a great contribution to the industry when they graduate . 
It is a very worthwhile project . " 
Mr. J. H. Innes , principal of the College of Further Education , proposing the toast of the Institute , said it was a tragedy that so many industries today still maintained some of the worst aspects of the old apprenticeship system , and had lost so many of the good aspects . 
The National Joint Apprenticeship Council had given careful thought to the organisation of the craft apprenticeships . 
There was no need for long apprenticeship provided it was carefully organised . 
He congratulated the catering industry on being alive to this need . 
He wished more industries saw the necessity of careful selection of the duties and functions of the apprentice . 
The colleges must work with industry to try to get the best for the apprentice , to produce the best kind of craftsmanship . 
Mr. Innes said that in Newcastle the education authority was doing all it could to provide better education , but the college premises in Bath Lane were grossly inadequate . 
However , it was hoped to move into a fine new college in St. Mary 's Place in about three years . 
That would give a great chance to develop many aspects of college work , particularly catering management . 
Mr. J. J. Lanning , national secretary of the Institute , replying to the toast , said few industries were growing at such a rate as catering . 
Nevertheless , catering was an industry with some deficiencies . 
The greatest was that some employers did not yet realise the value of the training available in the technical colleges . 
Fortunately , the branch chairman and his committee were conscious of the fact and were doing all they could to remedy it . 
If there was to be development in the north-east , the hotel and catering industry could not be neglected , but the Institute needed the support of both the employers and the education authorities . 
Proposing the toast of the guests , Mr. Thomas Lonsdale , said the catering industry today required brains , but pointed out that the capacity to absorb technical knowledge differed from the hard realism of routine catering , which demanded not only brains and skill , but common sense and understanding of human nature as well as the highest possible degree of courtesy . 
The last factor could not be over-stressed in catering today . 
The recent tea-break strike highlighted the importance of the industry , but as far as he could recall there had never been a strike in the industry itself . 
" We are rather proud of our classless profession , " he added . 
Mr. A. Johnson , secretary of the Northern Advisory Council of Further Education , responded . 
Hotel College is U.N.O . 
in Miniature 
That the post-diploma course in hotel management now offered at the hotel and catering section of Blackpool Technical College , is highly thought of is shown by the fact that two students have travelled thousands of miles to take advantage of it . 
Krishan Kuma Amla has a B.A. degree from the University of Jamull and Kashmir , and C.Comm. degree , Commercial University of New Delhi , has been assistant manager of the Hotel Broadway , New Delhi , and been seconded by the hotel management for a year 's training at the Blackpool School . 
Within six days of receiving acceptance of his application , Mr. Amla flew over to Blackpool and suddenly appeared at the school ready to start the course . 
Leo C Wilson says ALL-ROUNDERS HAVE NO MONOPOLY IN BAD JUDGING 
THERE is , perhaps , no need for me to join in the controversy over the appointment of judges for championship shows since Raymond Oppenheimer is doing very nicely on his own , thank you . 
But it is a subject on which I have expressed an opinion many times over the years so I could hardly keep out of it . 
Personally I think that the Shows Regulation Committee holds the view that because a championship show committee asks for a certain judge that judge is { 6ipso facto a suitable appointment whilst reserving the right , of course , to refuse the appointment for any reason of its own . 
That , to my mind is a basic and very grievous error . 
I could understand this point of view better if the SRC were composed entirely of people who did not know the workings of show committees , but the present SRC includes people who have quite intimate knowledge of the manner in which championship show judges are appointed ( and of the way this varies according to the promoting club ) so all one can think is that their voices are either not raised in protest or go unheeded . 
MY main point of difference with Mr Oppenheimer is that his present campaign is concerned with the appointment of unsuitable non-specialist judges whereas I am just as much concerned with the appointment of incapable specialist judges . 
I believe Mr. Oppenheimer shares that concern , but feels that the issue he has raised is sufficient at the moment to keep him fully occupied without widening it . 
Personally I hold the view that if anything is going to be done at all to revise the methods of selecting and approving judges then it might as well be all embracing . 
I do not want to stand up as champion of the all-rounders merely because I am , in fact , one of them , especially as I feel that the term " all-rounder " is applied much too loosely and made applicable to people who have just judged small shows and variety classes or best in show at championship shows whereas it should , strictly , be only applied to those judges who have demonstrated a working knowledge of all breeds and are acceptable to exhibitors in at least the large majority of breeds . 
Few of the people who are given the label of all-rounders could pass that test . 
I FEEL obliged to support Mr Oppenheimer 's contention that some all-rounders have insufficient experience of this breed , for good Bull Terriers , like good Alsatians and a number of other breeds are but rarely met with in variety classes at small shows and even when a breed class is scheduled the top dogs rarely go pot hunting . 
This being so , the opportunities for seeing the best of the breed ( and therefore getting one 's eye in ) are limited . 
I suppose I judge as many shows as most people but I must confess that so far this year — apart from when I have judged at Ch shows — I have not come across more than a dozen Bull Terriers ( possibly only half that number ) and only one really top class specimen that I recall and that was in the best in show ring at WELKS where I left the best of breed Bull Terrier in the last few from which I made my final selection . 
So far as this goes therefore I agree with Mr. Oppenheimer that judges who are merely termed all-rounders because they have a limited experience of judging varieties can not be regarded as fully equipped to award CCs in the breed . 
ALL I want to say is that all-rounders ( or if one prefers the term " non-specialists " ) have no monopoly of bad judging and it is , as I have said many times before , one of the faults of our system that a judge can not be hauled over the coals and asked to explain his or her reasons for placings which cause widespread amazement in the same way that an official referee or umpire can be arraigned for decisions alleged to be bad . 
I have myself seen at least one amazing display of judging by a specialist judge in Mr. Oppenheimer 's own breed where several very ordinary dogs and one which was really in the pet category were placed over the latest champion who had only just won his qualifying CC under Mr. Oppenheimer himself and was not unfit or lame or anything else apparent which accounted for his being ignored . 
THERE have been occasions when I have spoken to specialist judges in connection with their CC winners and have been amazed at their apparent lack of knowledge or perception . 
It is understandable that they should have some enthusiasm for their CC winners , but not to the extent that they can not see their imperfections yet I have come across cases where specialists — in some cases I must admit where they are fulfilling their first championship show engagement — when they have gone into raptures over very ordinary specimens with quite obvious faults and even when fundamental anatomical faults were pointed out to them — such as faulty shoulders , movement and so on — they have not only been unable or unwilling to see the faults , but have even given me a sort of pitying look one gives to a half-witted child because I even suggested that their idol had feet of clay — so to speak . 
On the other hand I have heard specialist judges condemn exhibits for faults which either they did not possess , were not provided for in the Standard or for things which they obviously were not equipped to judge . 
AS examples of this I recently heard the scathing comment " slipped patella " used about the action of a dog which gave an occasional hop when I am perfectly sure no veterinary surgeon would have committed himself to that diagnosis without at least subjecting the dog to examination . 
And I am extremely doubtful if the judge making that remark would be able to recognise the condition by examination . 
Especially as one of them added the revealing comment , " I believe they 've had that trouble in that kennel " . 
Another specialist of some repute faulted a dog for missing molars , although in fact she had not examined the dog and was only going by hearsay . 
And even if the dog did have missing molars the breed Standard makes no mention of that as a fault . 
I am not saying a dog should not be penalised for missing molars , but how many judges even look at molars ? 
And do they all know just how many teeth of each category a dog should have ? 
BENCH AND FIELD HOW THE MINOR BREEDS CAN HELP THEMSELVES by F WARNER HILL 
THE problem of the non-certificated breeds at the championship shows is always with us . 
The " big boys " are tacitly expected to schedule a number of them with the almost certainty they will lose money . 
The extent of the classification given to these breeds again rests on the generosity of the promoters , but here the breed clubs can play a considerable part . 
It is well known that breeds of this type often pay better at regional open and limited shows than they do at national events , but as breed clubs are invariably based on national membership I do suggest they could relieve those national shows who schedule them with guarantees , either whole or partial according to their financial position . 
If guarantees are impossible then could not there be more cash specials reserved for shows of this type to encourage the members to enter ? 
I am fully aware of the complexities of the problem , for I am president of one of the minor clubs concerned , and feel that when certificates are on offer these are a prime attraction , and could be balanced at shows without certificates with augmented prize money in the way of specials from the club coffers . 
IT is of untold good to have a breed represented at national fixtures , and in the smaller breeds the club members must of necessity be prepared to give financial support whenever possible . 
One does not see so often a group of breed patrons providing private guarantees and so relieving the club finances as formerly , but I might commend to those interested the words of Robert Burns , translated into English . 
A lot of people offering a little extra support apiece can accomplish a large result , and this is by far the most satisfactory one . 
A patron with the best intent in the world wealthy enough to hand over plenty of cash is always in these suspicious days running the risk of being accused of " buying their way in " . 
I know for a fact one or two sensitive people have actually provided this cash support in the form of anonymous donations with no conditions as to how it should be used . 
I know one well-known club which opens a subscription list to offset show expenses , and the contributors ' names are listed , but not the amount of their donations , just one way of overcoming an embarrassment , and proving the " widow 's mite " as equally well thought of as the gold of the wealthy pharisee . 
IN glancing through the entry list at Birmingham ( taken at random as an example ) I note that there are some strange anomalies . 
For instance , Pointers without certificates in six classes average 3.3 , while German Short-haired Pointers under the same judge with certificates rate six in six classes whilst Weimaraners which he also judges come up with a five average in four classes without CCs . 
This is all the more creditable to Weimaraners in view of their position in the schedule . 
Maybe they are not looked on as " bird dogs " , but still they might have been listed with them rather than behind the Spaniel classification . 
Birmingham , in fact , does not seek guarantees , but some of the bird dog breeds at least have flourishing clubs and might well have supported to some extent . 
I hope I will not be accused of taking invidious exceptions , but a new club such as the Pointer Club seeking more certificates for the breed particularly in the Midlands might well have supported quite a generous classification of six , with something more attractive to their members than a couple of rosettes . 
CLUMBERS without certificates have 20 entries and average five , which is good when one considers that the overall average entry for the Spaniel classes is 6.5 per class and Fields ( without CCs ) though not so good at 3.25 per class are certainly better than last year when only two entries were received — an average of only 1 per class . 
It is also noteworthy that the general average at this show is about 6.5 and the Gundog group as a whole must be classed as quite satisfactory with an approximate average of 7.2 
AMONG all the difficulties of running a successful kennel , one problem is of naming the inmates . 
The Wilson Wileys who live at Little Wardrobes and adopted this place name as their prefix , have been christening homebred stock with names associated with a lady 's wardrobe , such as Mink in all its varieties , Georgette , Hunting Pink , Sari , Sable , etc , and finally have run out of kindred names . 
Returning from their round-the-world tour and faced with the naming of a couple of litters awaiting their arrival , Mrs Wilson Wiley , to while away time ( no pun intended ) on the last leg of the journey , started jotting down names of accessories such as jewellery . 
She listed such names as Cut Diamond , Emerald , Opal , Garnet , etc , and finally , running out of ideas , stuffed the paper in her make-up case . 
Going through Customs she was specifically asked if she had any jewellery bought abroad to declare and gave a conscience clear " No , " but a suspicious Customs officer , insisting on examining the contents of the case , came across this list of jewels , and it took a lot of talking on the part of her solicitor husband to convince the officer this was not a smuggler 's list but merely a list of names for some Boxer puppies . 
THE MANUFACTURE OF YOGHURT Danish Dairy increases Output 
IN many European countries such as Switzerland , Holland , Germany and Italy sales of yoghurt have recently undergone a considerable increase , and are even greater as one comes as far south as Turkey and the Balkans , where yoghurt originated . 
In the Scandinavian countries they have not varied very much , with the possible exception of Sweden , where there has been a market interest in this special cultured milk product . 
From time to time in Denmark , there has been a move to increase sales , especially when the international weekly and monthly journals have emphasized the health-giving properties of yoghurt . 
The increase to date , however , has not given rise to much profit , for a considerable turnover and investment in the product is necessary before much return can be expected . 
When this has been achieved there are grounds for rationalising the product and improving the quality . 
Some time ago an effort was made to sell more yoghurt in greater Copenhagen , and the dairy firm { Jaegersborg Alle2s Mejeri increased its sales so that production could be rationalised , according to the latest methods . 
The dairy has now constructed a completely new yoghurt department , equipped with new plant , the most important of which is a large new automatically controlled yoghurt incubator ( Fig. 1 ) . 
The incubator is 2 m. wide , 1 m. deep and 2 m. high and holds in all 2,000 quarter-litre yoghurt jars of the type shown in Fig. 2 , which stand in galvanized crates , 50 to each crate . 
It is well insulated and finished in stainless steel plate , both inside and out . 
The conditions necessary for the manufacture of yoghurt of the right quality include a very careful control of all time-temperature combinations throughout the process . 
The incubator is therefore equipped with a very precise and entirely automatic control , which leaves nothing to chance from the moment the yoghurt jars enter the cupboard till they are removed to the dispatch department . 
It is easier to understand the function of the automatic control when it is considered in connection with the manufacturing method employed by { Jaegersborg Alle2s Mejeri , which must not be varied if one is to obtain a uniform product from day to day . 
The product should have a mild , acid and aromatic flavour . 
Methods of Manufacture 
Stassinized milk is used for the manufacture of yoghurt . 
The milk is stored overnight at 4° C. , because it has been found that the ageing of the milk , which takes place during this storage period , is important in the quality of the final product . 
The aged milk is then filled into a 500 l. jacketed stainless steel container and heated to 70° C. It is homogenised at this temperature , using only a light pressure , and is then fed to a second holding vessel , exactly similar to the first , where it is heated to 95° C. in 30 min . 
Afterwards the milk is cooled to 50° C. , at which point 3 per cent yoghurt culture is added . 
This is thoroughly stirred in , after which the milk is filled in to the new 250 ml. jars , with a 55 mm. opening designed so that the yoghurt can be eaten direct from the jar . 
Filling is carried out by a Handy 2 apparatus which is fitted with specially designed filling valves for the wide mouthed jars . 
The yoghurt culture , which consists of a mixture of { streptoccus thermophilus and { thermobacterium bulgaricum , is particularly sensitive to disinfectants and sodium hypochlorite is not used therefore in the final rinse water during the washing of the jars . 
Instead , the final temperature is raised so that the jars leave the washer hot and dry in a relatively short time . 
After filling and capping , the temperature of the inoculated yoghurt milk is reduced to 41-42° C. , and the jars are put into the incubator , where this temperature is held constant for approximately 2 hr . 
Supplementary heat is provided by an electric heating element enclosed in the partition wall between the two doors , which is automatically controlled by means of contact thermometers . 
The temperature is then reduced to 20° C. during the next 2 hr . 
Cooling takes place by means of chilled water and this is also automatically controlled so that the temperature falls evenly . 
In further period of 2 hr. the temperature is reduced from 20° C. to 4° C. , which is maintained until the yoghurt is removed from the cupboard . 
Freezing is carried out by a refrigeration unit mounted above the incubator . 
This is also equipped with automatic time and temperature controls which are mounted in a separate control panel . 
The accuracy of control is demonstrated by the rate of acid development which is almost constant from day to day . 
In the manufacture of yoghurt it is also important to prevent the product from wheying off at any stage , and it is essential that the ripening is stopped at the correct degree of acidity , and the temperature subsequently reduced quickly and evenly . 
{ Jaegersborg Alle2s Mejeri have chosen to handle yoghurt in the new standard jars because they believe that nothing appeals more to both the eye and the appetite than hundreds of clear , uniformly filled jars standing ready for dispatch . 
With its new equipment the dairy can turn out 2,000 jars daily , but if the trade continues to expand it will only be a question of time before new equipment is added to that already installed . 
The manufacturers of the incubator , which is equipped with Faxholm automatic controls , are P. Andersen 's EFTF. of Copenhagen . 
SUPERMARKET TRADE ASSOCIATION FORMED Two Classes of Membership 
A trade association has been formed to service the rapidly growing supermarket industry . 
The founder members are : Neville Cohen of London Grocers Ltd. , Sydney J. Ingram of Anthony Jackson 's Foodfare Ltd. , Patrick Galvani of Premier Supermarkets Ltd. , J. Prideaux of John Gardner Ltd. , T. Lennon of Lennons Supermarkets Ltd. , Lord Trenchard and Wilfred Proudfoot , M.P . 
The objectives of The Supermarket Association are : — 
( 1 ) To provide a full information service to members . 
( 2 ) To represent the industry on matters of legislation , staff and public relations . 
( 3 ) To attract the right people into the industry and develop training facilities for them . 
Two classes of membership are proposed : full membership for companies engaged in operating supermarkets — the subscription will be 50 gns. a year plus one guinea per branch — and associate membership for manufacturers and suppliers , who will receive the full services of the Association but will have no voting powers . 
Subscription for associates will be 100 gns. a year . 
It is hoped to extend personal membership to those engaged in the industry when training facilities are available . 
Members of the industry believe that joint action is necessary to ensure that the growing demand for pre-packed and graded produce can be met . 
Only a united industry can deal adequately with marketing board Government departments . 
Staff training , statistical and other information , and the development of good relations with the buying public are all recognised as immediate requirements that only a fully representative trade organisation can provide . 
Mr. Don Parsons , Executive Director of the Supermarket Institute of America , has been elected an honorary member . 
Mr. E. G. Sabatini , manager of Promotion Features Ltd. , has been appointed Secretary to The Supermarket Association and their offices are at 17/19 Stratford Place , London W.1 ( Telephone : Grosvenor 8561/4 ) , where a full service is being provided by Promotion Features Ltd . 
MONTHLY DIGEST OF WORLD LITERATURE by Ernest J. Mann , N.D.D. Commonwealth Bureau of Dairy Science and Technology Milk Drying 
CONSIDERABLE technical developments have been taking place in the field of milk drying during recent years and there is no indication as yet that the flow of new ideas and developments in this field is coming to an end . 
An entirely new process developed on the Continent and suitable for drying milk as well as a variety of other foods is the B.I.R.S. process , the first detailed description of which has recently been published ( 1 ) . 
The main object of the process is to remove water from the product to be dried in such a way as to have a minimum effect on the flavour and nutritive value of the original product . 
This is achieved essentially by drying at a temperature below 30° C. After pilot plant studies had shown that over 80 different foods , including milk , butter , cheese and yoghurt , could be dried successfully by the process , a commercial plant was built in Sienna , Italy , and is now in operation for the manufacture of tomato powder . 
The plant consists of a 70-meter high , plastics-lined drying tower , through which particles of the product to be dried fall in counter current to slowly rising pre-dried air flowing at a rate of 0.05 to 1 meter per second . 
Since the drying takes place very slowly at a temperature below 30° C. , little of the aroma and flavour of the original product is lost . 
The air is dried by passage through chambers containing moisture absorbents and enters the chamber with a moisture content of 3 per cent , leaving it at the top of the tower with a moisture content of 80-90 per cent . 
The air is also filtered before entering the drying tower , containing not more than 0.5 mg. dust per cubic meter and being free from bacterial contamination . 
The particle size can be varied by regulating the distributor feeding the product into the tower and drying can be extended from 5 sec. to considerably longer periods . 
New plants which have been planned to have drying capacities of 1,000 to 5,000 litres moisture removed per hour and it has been calculated that only 1.2 to 1.8 kg. steam are required for the evaporation of 1 kg. moisture by the B.I.R.S. process , compared with 3.0 to 3.5 kg. required in continental spray-drying . 
The main object of a number of recent American patents appears to be to achieve a powder of higher solubility and/or stability , attention being directed especially to the drying of whole milk . 
One such process ( 2 ) involves incorporating an inert gas of low solubility into a concentrated , homogenised fat-containing milk in which the fat particles do not exceed 2m , subjecting the concentrate to such conditions of temperature and pressure as will prevent substantial evolution of gas while causing the concentrate to foam or puff , and finally drying the foamed concentrate to produce a dry cellular product which is readily dispersible in cold water by hand stirring . 
Another , somewhat similar , process ( 3 ) involves converting concentrated milk into a stable foam by incorporating a small amount of a foam-stabilising agent ( 1-4 per cent by wt. ) and a large volume of air or inert gas . 
The milk foam produced is then exposed , in the form of a thin layer , at normal pressures to a current of hot gases at 120°-220° F. until it is dried . 
During drying , the foam retains its expanded volume with the result that the final product is a brittle , sponge-like porous mass consisting of a matrix of solid milk particles interspersed with pockets of gas . 
It is readily crushed to form a product of porous flakes which are highly soluble in water . 
On somewhat different lines is a process suitable for spray-drying whole milk ( 4 ) , which involves spraying concentrated milk into a vacuum chamber and subjecting it to radiant microwave energy at a temperature below 35° C. in the upper section until a solids content of 87 per cent has been reached , after which it is treated by infra-red rays at a temperature below 60° C. until the dried milk particles attain a moisture content less than 5 per cent . 
The milk particles may also be coated by spraying a hot lactose solution into the lower part of the drying chamber . 
This imparts improved solubility to the dried milk . 
Improved solubility is also claimed in a process emanating from the Netherlands ( 5 ) , in which spray dried skim- or whole milk is heated to 70° C. in a steam jacketed rotary mixer and 0.2-4 per cent by weight of similarly heated liquified soya-lecithin is added , causing the milk particles to become coated with the lecithin . 
Editorial Points 
Owing to the number of important competitions held recently we regret we have been unable to include in this issue some interesting technical articles , including the first of a new series . 
These will be published next month . 
APPRENTICESHIP RATIO 
IT has been said that hairdressers can employ more apprentices — that is over the legal ratio — provided they pay rates which are not less than those of any " other worker . " 
But the very fact of paying an apprentice more money does not permit master hairdressers to employ apprentices above the ratio unless such other wages are paid that the Order specifies . 
The rate which would have to be paid in these circumstances would be those of first-year operatives and not those of " other worker . " 
It is known that a number of hairdressers have employed young people as apprentices at "other worker " rates believing this was permissible . 
This is not so and while it may in certain cases have been tolerated in the first year of apprenticeship , the payment of " other worker " rates would certainly not be acceptable in the second year . 
The intention of the authority concerned is to operate the Wages Order as written . 
There need be no doubt about that . 
An increasingly sharp official eye is being kept on the situation . 
The present ratio compared with that of 1948 implies that three times the number of young people are being apprenticed today . 
This is an answer to those who say that the age-old custom of apprenticeship is dying . 
And these days , the employer has the advantage of getting the apprentice supplementary training at National Technical Colleges and these facilities are growing . 
It is just a matter of time before the trainee schools will disappear altogether from the scene . 
Every intelligent hairdresser knows by now that he has an obligation to provide proper training for apprentices because it is in his own interests that there should be a pool of qualified assistants from which to draw replacements and increase staff . 
It can not be there for him unless he undertakes to train his own quota of young people in the right way . 
He also knows that the trainee river of supply is poor and useless to him however much work he puts in to try and improve it . 
We must face the fact that those young people who seek to enter the { 6bona-fide Craft through trainee school instruction are trying to do things the easy way . 
They are not willing , and probably do not possess the ability , to undergo the discipline and teaching of the three-year course . 
We are sorry for them . 
It is the bitter lesson that they must learn . 
Hairdressing is not easily taught . 
There are no short cuts . 
Maybe one or two young trainees do have a pronounced flair for hairdressing and a higher standard of intelligence and education than the majority of their kind , but that has nothing to do with the rest . 
It is the duty of the hairdresser to teach , keep alive and make progressive the various skills which are the basis of professional hairdressing . 
He will know that however much he himself knows about his job , there is always something more to learn . 
It should be a matter of professional pride to understand the art of wig-making , for example , however unnecessary it may appear to some . 
For we have not seen the last of the wig in the world of fashion . 
We have never said goodbye to it throughout our history , and that goes back a very long way . 
There are newer skills and there will be even more . 
Modern hair colouring , for instance , is comparatively new . 
Its techniques will grow more complex , just as every other professional skill grows more complex . 
We must not imagine anyway that simplification is a boon . 
It often leads to the cheapening of a service in terms of quality . 
It is a moot point if a simplified service can impose increased charges . 
The professional service of the hairdresser must be always something that the public can not provide for itself . 
Do not let us be misled that because times may be affluent that it is necessarily easier for us to earn a better living . 
There are countries which we could mention where the standard of living is very high and where more and more women are dressing their own hair . 
This can only be because they do not think that the service their hairdressers offer is worth the money . 
It can happen here , too . 
If we drop our professional service standards by turning out mass produced work the public in the end will judge us . 
We can charge what we like . 
The public will decide whether or not it pays . 
RAISING GENT 'S PRICES 
WE are glad to see the gentleman 's hairdresser putting up his prices . 
They are , unfortunately , still not high enough . 
Here we have indeed a high standard of skill , but the charges for it have been too low for too long . 
Now property values are soaring and it is certainly becoming extremely difficult for the small gent 's salon to exist . 
More and more of these will be driven away from busy streets into back streets , and a large portion of these will inevitably cease to exist . 
Apart from the difficulty of obtaining young people to enter the business , the tide is running in favour of the larger units . 
But even these will have to obtain higher prices for their service . 
They will get them . 
It is an indispensable service . 
And there is scope in the business for other services and for new ideas . 
Young men are already showing increasing smartness in their appearance and dress . 
The dowdy man in a shabby suit will shortly belong to the dreary past . 
Older generations may not always approve of what the young generation does , but they cut no ice with the youngsters . 
Their support of new styling has been a good thing for the gentleman 's hairdresser . 
A FINE EXHIBITION 
OVER 21,000 people visited the Hairdressing Exhibition at Alexandra Palace and there is every reason to think that the numbers who attend the next show will be even greater . 
This implies that it is possible to build up this Exhibition in its present form to numbers fit to compare with the public exhibitions of the past . 
It is a fact that the hall at Alexandra Palace was larger than the National Hall at Olympia and the standard of display was far higher than anything we have done before . 
It is another fact that the majority of our exhibitors had displays that would not be likely to attract much attention from the public . 
But they are of interest to hairdressers . 
A final fact is that much more could be done to popularise and publicise the Exhibition to the hairdresser . 
There is always the magnet of the great competitions , but there could be other ideas as well to bring the hairdresser along . 
There is plenty of time to consider the next show . 
Maybe Blackpool will get a closer look from the H.M.W.A. next year . 
But here a whole great town offers attractions and it is , furthermore , a holiday town , which the great Metropolis is definitely not ! 
A FOOLISH ECONOMY 
THERE is an increasing tendency among master hairdressers to assume that they need not insure themselves for employers ' liability . 
It is thought that if an employee suffers industrial injury that the matter is fully taken care of by National Health Insurance . 
But if it is proved that an employer has been negligent , the employee can sue him . 
We do , of course , take that risk if we do n't insure . 
We can attempt to justify this by arguing that as we have never had a case of this kind why should we keep on paying premiums to insurance companies ? 
Accidents , however , usually take us by surprise . 
They are never expected until they happen . 
Who would have thought that Miss Jones would get a sudden attack of dermatitis through her hair colour work ? 
She had done it for so long . 
Of course it did happen that there was a time when we had n't renewed her rubber gloves or had a tube of barrier cream available . 
How unfortunate ! 
Certainly unfortunate for us if Miss Jones decides to sue . 
Naturally , we do save money if we do n't pay employers ' liability insurance premiums . 
We may save it for years . 
But how much does it amount to ? 
A few pounds ? 
And how much can Miss Jones get out of us ? 
Your guess is as good as ours — maybe thousands . 
No , the risk of economising here is just not worth it . 
Let us choose other ways of saving our pennies . 
We are a public service and an important one . 
We are , therefore , up front to be shot at . 
A busy salon season is coming . 
That fact alone increases our risks as employers . 
We should do everything possible to limit them . 
TO WAIT OR NOT TO WAIT 
THE Registration Movement celebrates a year of quiet and steady progress with a small Dinner and Dance in London . 
This is a serious minded body with one object : to pass a Bill through Parliament to get hairdressers registered . 
When is it likely that such a Bill will go through ? 
Many hairdressers ask this . 
If it happened , of course , the rush to register would be an avalanche ! 
But surely that is the wrong way to go about things . 
If the rush took place now and if the Hairdressers ' Registration Council could claim that every hairdresser wanted Registration , we think that the Bill would get considerable support in Parliament and that when it came to be presented the Government would get it through . 
We have to be united in this cause and show determination to achieve the object . 
If we take the view that we are not going to do anything until it looks as if the Bill is going to succeed , then all we are doing is to undermine or delay the cause . 
Full support is necessary . 
Do we or do we not want Registration ? 
If we do n't want it , then what do we do to safeguard the Craft ? 
Let us take it for granted that most of us want to safeguard it . 
But how else can we do it ? 
It seems that only Registration can do this job . 
And if we all agree about that , why not act now and do something about it ? 
The fee to a hairdresser is only ten shillings a year . 
It should be twice that amount . 
How much money is spent in postage in trying to get members to renew their membership ? 
How much money is spent in publicising the Movement ? 
However much is spent on either account , if more were available a better job could be done for the Movement . 
THE PALETTE CLUB by Joan Benton Colour for VERY GREY AND WHITE HAIR 
THE colouring of very grey and white hair presents particular features which differ from the colouring of naturally coloured hair or hair containing only a small amount of grey . 
As hair loses its colour pigment , alterations take place in its structure which change the texture of the hair and often affect its resilience . 
These changes vary from head to head , so that no hard and fast rules can be made when applying colour , and the results will vary considerably , according to the condition of the hair . 
The most common change of texture in greying hair is a hardening of the hair shaft , which takes on almost a glass-like appearance and can be very resistant to some forms of colour . 
This is most noticeable when using temporary or semi-permanent colour . 
A temporary colour can in extreme cases be thrown off , even as it is being applied , so resistant is some white hair , and the partial penetration of a semi-permanent colour which allows for a lasting power of some weeks will not always be as effective on very grey hair when the cuticle of the hair has hardened . 
Semi-permanent colouring is the most popular and generally used form of colouring very grey and white hair , and the colour expert has a wide variety of grey , blue-grey and pastel tones from which to choose . 
LIMITED BUDGET ADVERTISING 
MORE MONEY than ever is now being spent on stimulating the public to travel abroad — whether for business or pleasure . 
But what about the smaller agent ? 
Even the small agent with only limited resources should advertise , provided the money is well directed into the proper channels . 
Bearing in mind the fact that the smaller travel agent offers special services to a particular cliente3le , the problem is not as difficult as it looks . 
This first article therefore , deals with the press side ; the second will deal with public relations , and the third will deal with direct mail . 
And these aim to offer just a few suggestions on how the smaller agent can " sell himself " successfully . 
There are of course many other forms of publicity which will not be covered , such as outdoor posters ( roadside hoardings , bus sides , trains etc. ) illuminated signs and so on . 
Not most effective 
Naturally when one first thinks of press advertising , it conjures up the thought of taking space in the national dailies or Sunday papers ; but it must be pointed out that , whilst this is an ideal media , it does not mean it is necessarily the most effective method of reaching your public . 
With your type of cliente3le , and the kind of money which you have available for advertising , the local press is probably the ideal way of reaching your client . 
Whatever the flavour or colour of your local paper , do remember that these are read avidly for local information , etc . 
It has been proved by research as well as by the response of local traders that spaces however large or small certainly have the required pulling power ! 
In addition , of course , you will probably be able to afford to take small spaces in the small circulation local magazines , i.e. church magazines , local shopping guides etc. , whose readers are also susceptible to your kind of advertising . 
For this purpose it is necessary to find out which papers and magazines potential customers read — then use them . 
In most cases advertising rates are very economical indeed for the amount of coverage which they offer . 
To give an example of costs , the major counties of England have been selected and in the table on page 41 these are listed together with the number of weekly papers in each area , together with the overall average costs per single column inch . 
As will be seen these are extremely economical . 
When to advertise ? 
This is a very important factor when thinking of advertising . 
To reach the holiday market , it would be advisable to plan your campaign , if you are selling inclusive tours or package holidays , so that it appears in late December or during January . 
It is advisable to keep in reserve a small amount for advertising during MarchApril to catch those people who do not decide where or what they are going to do until later in the year , or possibly are wanting to see what the Budget is going to do for them . 
It is at this time when the public are thinking of planning their forthcoming annual holiday . 
It would be extremely wasteful to spend money on promoting summer holidays in the middle of June or July . 
If you are in a highly industrial area where there are a number of top level executives who are unable to get away during the normal periods , then it may be wise to promote a special campaign " selling " the idea of getting away during late autumn , finding the sun , or travelling to a winter skiing holiday . 
This campaign would be best planned to commence around late August or the beginning of September . 
The writer feels that repetitive small spaces are better able to keep the company 's name before the public , rather than putting all your eggs in one basket by taking say a half-page , and thus spending all your money in one large effort . 
It should be apparent from these remarks that very careful thought and planning should be undertaken before carrying out any type of advertising . 
Quality is what counts 
As has already been stated , it is not always the size of space which dominates but how the space which is bought , can be used to the best advantage . 
If you can only afford 2 in. single columns in your local newspaper , it is wise only to promote the company name together with the facilities offered . 
An example of style for this format is shown . 
Even in small spaces such as this the " brand image " is incorporated . 
It may , however , be felt that at certain times during the year you are able to offer the public in your area a special " package " holiday to various resorts . 
This will mean taking larger spaces to display this information . 
An example of this type of display is also illustrated . 
Once again the " brand image " of the company is followed through . 
As will be seen the same name plate and border etc. are adhered to , thus continuing the build-up of the company 's image . 
Creating a brand image 
To promote your company successfully it is wise to create a brand image , and this can be done by standardising the style of the company name either by creating a name block of the company name , i.e. Poly Travel , or by adhering to a standard form of setting the company name . 
This should be carried throughout on letterheads , labels etc . 
This , together with a type of border display which is repetitively used whenever advertising the facilities offered , will in time become immediately recognisable as belonging to your company . 
An example of how this can be achieved in different sizes is shown on the layouts illustrated in this article . 
THE BASIC QUALITIES OF PERSONAL SELLING by STUART THOMSON Successful salesmanship largely depends on a positive attitude 
THROUGHOUT the British Isles the benefits and pleasures of travel are being creatively sold or " offered for sale " . 
There is a considerable difference in these two functions and the difference will be emphasised in this series of articles . 
Working from ill-equipped Dickensian offices or operating from large , plush showrooms of global romance , are the men and women who are , or should be , engaged in selling travel . 
Without any doubt some of them have pledged themselves , by their mental attitudes , to a life of frustration , inertia and discontent , whilst some of their colleagues have destined themselves , because of quite contrasting attitudes , to a life of fulfilment , happiness and success . 
As each year passes the sum total of sales promotional activity within the travel industry grows more weighty and impressive . 
Apart from the increased display advertisement space booked in newspapers and magazines , additional use is being made of television and commercial radio . 
Add to this such media as posters and direct mail and it will be quickly appreciated that the consumer public is increasingly well served with information . 
Whilst the ultimate intention of all this publicity is obviously to sell travel , its immediate aim is to foster desire , create awareness and stimulate the intention to act . 
Through a variety of means , for a large number of varied reasons , it helps bring the public to the market place of travel . 
However , nothing materialises , no positive action takes place , no orders are negotiated , until the prospective purchaser is in contact with a travel agency or a transport organisation . 
People taking charge 
It is now that people become involved and it is people , with their idiosyncratic ways , patterns of behaviour and thought processes , who make or mar a sale . 
The human personality takes effect . 
Men and women influence the result of a commercial transaction . 
Whilst it is the object of publicity to promote a sale , the inescapable fact remains that promotion is one thing and execution another . 
The key factor in successful selling is the degree of enthusiasm and competence of the sales staff . 
When they lack zest , belief and knowledge , they will mutilate opportunities to make sales . 
When they possess enthusiasm , belief and knowledge , they will create opportunities as well as accept those which are presented to them . 
As far as the practises and techniques of selling are concerned there are no " secrets " , no hidden mysteries . 
Commerce has existed for so many centuries that all known usages and practises are on record . 
Learning techniques 
No one would deny that it is necessary for sales personnel to learn and practise all acceptable techniques which are applicable to the sale of their particular product or service . 
It is , though , almost a waste of time painstakingly to learn the routines of selling unless one approaches this stimulating , rewarding occupation with a positive attitude of mind . 
Beliefs and attitudes play a role of greater importance than techniques which can be learned without difficulty . 
Some people are outstanding , or noticeably good , as salesmen . 
Their success is not wrapped up in mysticism , gift of the gab , unmitigated toil , family influence , or selfish desire for material gain . 
It may be pitifully comforting for those who fail to attribute the sales success of others to all sorts of weird , and sometimes quite petty , reasons , but it is profitless expenditure of nervous energy . 
All good salesmen and women possess four attributes without which they could not succeed . 
( 1 ) They have a sincere and genuine interest in the product or service which they market . 
( 2 ) They consciously enjoy their work — they like selling . 
( 3 ) Most important of all they believe in themselves , their company , and their industry . 
They believe that what they are doing is the right thing to be doing . 
( 4 ) They think positively . 
They think of success , not of failure . 
They cast out doubts and defeatism , knowing that dwelling on negative corroding thoughts is destructive . 
There are , of course , numerous other assets which are required for a successful career in selling . 
Obviously , for instance , one can not sell well without enthusiasm , but the man or woman who possesses the four main characteristics just listed is , automatically , enthusiastic . 
Early in this article I said that some people destine themselves for success whilst others ensure for themselves a life of frustration . 
Success in selling is as simple , or as complex , as the control exercised by the attitude of mind to the work to be done . 
Automatic polish 
The man who enjoys his work and approaches it creatively will find that the techniques , the competency and the professional polish will come to him automatically . 
He will learn and progress because he wishes to do so , not because he is forced to do so . 
When a man does not like what he is doing , when he does not believe in it , when he is perpetually day-dreaming and night-scheming as to how to escape from his present mode of life , then he is doomed to failure in his existing employment . 
To sell travel — or anything else — successfully , it is essential to want and intend to succeed . 
Unaware of resources 
The travel industry is not alone in utilising the services of some sales people who are mediocre — that word is high praise for them — and inefficient because they are unaware of their potentialities as human beings , and unappreciative of the power they possess to be of service to others . 
In certain of such instances it is unfair and unrealistic to place the entire blame on the men and women concerned . 
Importance of example 
An employer , the proprietor of a travel agency , has no right to criticize members of his staff for lack of enthusiasm and absence of application if he , personally , does not set an example . 
A large number of average or poor performers could , and would , be much more successful if only they were given a lead by their seniors and assisted with patience , understanding and fellow feeling . 
All too often this is not the case . 
Successful selling primarily depends on liking the product or service , enjoying selling , believing sincerely in the benefits of one 's work and cultivating a successful attitude to life . 
Some people understand this truth instinctively , whilst others need much guidance in order to develop the potentialities that lie within them . 
Modern sales office technique 
MOST DEPARTMENT and multiple stores of Western Europe and North America spend considerably on staff training , and every sales person passes through a theoretical course as well as a period of practical apprenticeship . 
Better crops would enable more stock to be maintained and a progressive cycle of improvement would result . 
The farm lies at an altitude of around 1,000 ft. and forms a rather narrow strip from West to East — high at the West and falling through about two-thirds of its length to a small burn which traverses the farm . 
East of the burn the land again rises towards the boundary . 
The soil generally is a medium loam , somewhat thin and rocky on the hilly part near the west boundary and peaty in the hollow near the burn . 
The soil is not inherently infertile , but on entry the farm was in very poor heart . 
The initial rental was £70 { 6per annum with an agreement that this would be raised to £100 when the existing byre was gutted and made into a covered court . 
This was the only alteration made to the steading . 
With the farm in such poor condition the first need was to improve the grassland . 
Soil analyses showed all the land to be very low in lime and the major nutrient elements . 
During the first two winters , therefore , practically the whole farm was limed at the rate of two tons of ground limestone per acre . 
Such grassland as had to be temporarily retained was given a dressing of some 7 cwt. per acre of potassic supers supplemented by an application of 1-2 cwt . 
" Nitro-Chalk " in the Spring . 
The land which had been under green crop was re-seeded direct and on all fields from which oats were being taken the crop was undersown with Italian and Perennial Ryegrass , the object being to supplement the grazing and provide something to plough down and improve the organic matter content of the soil . 
Cropping 
It should be realised that cropping in this area and at this altitude is no easy matter . 
The winters are very severe , snow frequently persisting into April , and late spring frosts are common . 
This holds up spring work badly and retards sowing while heavy autumn rains and early frosts or even snow storms make harvesting equally difficult . 
The advent of the tractor in enabling more rapid cultivations to be carried through as soon as weather conditions permit has undoubtedly helped to overcome these hazards . 
Before it was taken over the cropping system on Clashnoir had been irregular , but by 1949 it was being worked on a regular seven course rotation common in the area . 
With a regular lea break of around 17 acres the cropping was oats , oats , green crop , oats ( sown down ) and hay , followed by two years ' grazing . 
As the primary intention was to base the economy of the farm on high production from the grassland for both summer and winter , what would have been the normal root break was reduced to three acres and the balance sown down to a one year 's special mixture for cutting as silage . 
Later , when the fertility of the farm had been improved and the stocking stabilised , some four acres of rape were regularly grown in addition to the turnips , the former crop being used to finish off the lambs before marketing . 
The special one year 's mixture grown for silage was the usual Perennial , Italian and red clover mixture recommended by the College , while the grass seeds mixtures sown were also based on College experience using combinations of early and late maturing strains of ryegrass and cocksfoot to give continuity of growth for as long a grazing season as possible . 
In the control of grazing , use was made of the electric fence and surplus grass was cut for silage ; about one hundred tons of silage was made annually in an ordinary pit silo . 
Most of the oats grown in the early years were consumed by the stock on the farm , but as the farm improved an increasing proportion of the crop was generally sold , frequently for seed purposes . 
The greater quantity of straw produced was also welcome as the stock increased . 
Manuring 
While high production from the grassland was the primary aim , the land was not exploited and a balanced system of manuring was practised . 
In addition to the initial liming a dressing of two tons ground limestone per acre was applied to each field once in the rotation . 
Depending on the condition of the fields , the oat crops latterly received applications of 3-4 cwt. of a complete concentrated fertiliser combine-drilled and the turnip crop 8-10 cwt. of a regular turnip manure in addition to dung . 
During the earlier years when fertility was low the dressings were correspondingly heavier . 
When available , basic slag was applied at 10 cwt. per acre to land which was sown down , after harvesting the nurse crop . 
In the early stages there was a dearth of farmyard manure , but after the first few years there was ample to give the turnip land and the balance of the normal root break a regular and adequate dressing . 
Again depending on the condition of the field , its age and the purpose for which it was intended — whether for hay , to be cut for silage or grazed — the grassland was regularly treated with 2-3 cwt. potassic supers supplemented with 1-1 1/2 cwt . 
" Nitro-Chalk " or with 3-4 cwt. of a high nitrogen fertiliser . 
Stocking 
At ingoing , the cattle stock consisted of twelve breeding cows and calves and some 170 Blackface ewes were kept between Clashnoir and Thain . 
The cattle stock was transferred to Deskie and in 1949 , 21 pure bred Aberdeen-Angus in-calf heifers were purchased in the open market at commercial prices . 
It was anticipated that with the manuring undertaken the farm could carry this number , and it was proposed to breed cross calves which would be suckled and sold off their mothers in the autumn . 
Using a white Shorthorn bull this became more or less the practice . 
As the fertility of the land improved , the number of cattle carried was increased until latterly the herd numbered around thirty . 
This number might have been increased further , but accommodation for handling them during the winter was the limiting factor . 
With good foundation breeding stock and using good class bulls , the stock sold from Clashnoir soon became well known and commanded very creditable prices in the local market , while several were brought on by purchasers and gained awards at both the Edinburgh Fat Stock Show and at Smithfield . 
Early calves were regularly sold at the autumn sales , while the odd late calves were kept over their first winter and sold as convenient the following spring or later as six-quarter cattle . 
The herd became attested in 1952 , but the normal hazards of farming were encountered and the odd calf ( and cow ) were lost as on any other farm . 
In 1954 when the stock was being further increased some heifers were purchased in the open market . 
The following spring ten of the cattle aborted . 
Fortunately , as a result of prompt precautions being taken , there were no further losses the following year . 
When the cattle stock was increased so markedly in 1949 a drastic reduction was made in the sheep stock . 
The breeding flock was reduced to 30 ewes and remained at this figure until , in the autumn of 1953 , it was felt that this could be increased . 
Forty ewes were kept and twenty gimmers purchased . 
A stock of around sixty breeding sheep was kept thereafter , being replaced one-third annually by the purchase of a score of Blackface gimmers . 
The ewes were crossed with the Border Leicester tup and the lambs and cast ewes sold at the autumn sales . 
For disease prevention the lambs were regularly treated with the double vaccine for lamb dysentery and pulpy kidney within twenty-four hours of birth . 
With a small stock on an enclosed area this was not a difficult matter . 
The only other treatment regularly practised was the dosing of the ewes with phenothiazine in the spring and both ewes and lambs before the autumn sales . 
The only other livestock maintained was a flock of some 200 poultry kept on semi-intensive lines . 
No breeding was undertaken , the stock being kept up by the purchase of 100 three-month-old pullets each spring . 
Eggs were disposed of through the district packing station and the culls and old hens sold to a local butcher . 
While this general picture of the way the farm was run will be of interest to the practical farmer , it is the economic aspect which the experiment was undertaken to test . 
This aspect is treated in detail in the next section of this report , but in considering it three points should be borne in mind . 
Firstly , it should be viewed as a whole and not strictly in individual financial years because , when the production of livestock and crops extends over more than a single financial year , profits in any one year are at least partly derived from the farming operations of previous seasons . 
Secondly , the subsidies credited to the accounts were only those to which an ordinary farm tenant would be entitled . 
Perhaps the most important point of all is the fact that capital was available for expansion as required . 
Improvements on similar farms would depend not only on the urge to expand being present but also on credit facilities being available and on farmers being willing to take advantage of these facilities . 
Even so , as the later sections of this report show , the extra capital required to finance the improvements of Clashnoir was by no means excessive in relation to the increase in profits which ensued . 
3 . 
PRODUCTION 
There was a fairly steady upward trend in the value of output throughout the period of the experiment . 
In the Appendix , Table 4 , figures are given of net output per acre which rose from £10 8s. in 1949/50 to £19 2s. in 1954/55 . 
After a temporary set-back in 1955/56 there was a further rise to £19 6s. in 1956/57 . 
After the breeding herds and laying flocks were established , about 1950/51 , the pattern of output did not greatly change . 
The cattle enterprise generally accounted for around one-third of the output , sheep and wool for about one-sixth , crop sales for about a quarter and eggs for about one-seventh . 
Rising prices , of course , played a considerable part in the doubling of the value of output between the beginning and end of the experiment . 
The increase in the physical volume of production was less marked but was nevertheless quite significant , particularly for sheep , wool and eggs , as is shown in Table 1 . 
Most of the cattle were sold as weaned calves in the autumn and these realised very satisfactory prices which generally averaged over £40 in the later years of the experiment , except for 1955/56 ( Appendix , Table 5 ) . 
This was a reflection of the high quality and good reputation of the breeding cattle stock . 
A calving rate of about 95 per cent . 
was maintained over the nine years , with the exception of the 1955 season when , following the outbreak of contagious abortion , fewer than two-thirds of the cows calved successfully . 
The increased number of ewes carried on the farm from 1952 onwards , together with an improvement in the lambing rate from about 130 per cent . 
in the early years to about 145 per cent . 
latterly , led to an increase of nearly 50 per cent . 
in numbers of lambs sold . 
The prices realised for these lambs were generally rather above the average market levels for Greyfaces ( Appendix , Table 5 ) . 
While the laying flock made a significant contribution to the output of the farm , there was no attempt to make poultry more than a subsidiary enterprise ; many farms similar to Clashnoir in other respects carried much larger poultry enterprises . 
Once the poultry flock was established , egg sales averaged about 2,000 dozens annually though with some variation from year to year . 
This represented an annual yield , after allowing for some eggs used in the farmhouse , of about 180 eggs per laying bird . 
Crop sales consisted almost entirely of oats and in most years a large part of the crop was sold for seed at attractive prices ( Appendix , Table 6 ) . 
With the improvement in fertility , increased yields per acre made it possible to maintain and to some extent to increase the surplus of oats for sale , even though consumption on the farm also rose . 
THOUGHT FOR FOOD by ANTHONY LISLE 
TESTS were recently carried out at the National Institute for Research in Dairying , Shinfield , to find the optimum level of restricted feeding for the economic production of baconers . 
For the particular strains in the Shinfield pig unit and the type of ration in use , it was found that a maximum of 6 1/2 lb. a head daily gave the best results . 
But in an identical trial on another farm , using exactly the same diet on pigs of different breeding , it was not possible to feed much above 5 lb. a day without lowering the grading of the carcasses . 
This illustrates the great difficulty commercial bacon producers are up against in feeding for economic growth and top grading . 
It also shows why scientists can do little to help in this particular field . 
What is sound practice on one farm can be economically disastrous on the next . 
Producers will have to carry out their own trials to discover the best way to feed their pigs in their particular environment . 
It is not easy to carry out accurate trial work and keep detailed records on a busy , practical farm where labour is already being used at full stretch . 
But it is vitally important to know the most economic way to feed baconers . 
Adopting an arbitrary level of feeding restriction based on other people 's experience will not help . 
If the pigs are fed less than they are capable of taking before reaching a point of downgrading , they will take an unnecessarily long time to reach bacon weight and throughput will be slowed down . 
If the daily ration is too large , the pigs will grow rapidly enough , but their grading will be unsatisfactory . 
The margin between underfeeding and overfeeding is very narrow , and it can only be discovered on a basis of trial and error from farm to farm . 
CLOSELY related to this is the problem of deciding the best stage of growth at which restricted feeding should be introduced . 
Here again , most producers tend to adopt a set age or weight without first endeavouring to establish if it is the best time to make a change . 
Changing from { 6ad lib. to restricted feeding when the pigs are 100 lb. liveweight may be , and probably is , too soon . 
If they are allowed to feed to appetite until 140 lb. they will reach bacon weight 10 to 12 days earlier . 
The advice of Dr. R. Braude , who runs the Shinfield pig unit , is to feed young pigs { 6ad lib. until they reach the level of daily intake at which it is intended to restrict them , and then to ration them at that level . 
His experience has been that it is important not to let the pigs reach a daily feed intake above the restriction level and then drop them down again . 
This leads to a growth setback . 
For some time it has been a universal practice among bacon producers to use a two-ration feeding pattern . 
Sow-and-weaner meal is used until a certain stage , when a cheaper , low-protein diet is introduced . 
Once again the question arises : when should the change be made ? 
Dr. Braude feels that the decisions should be based on the appearance of the pigs and their known grading ability . 
If they tend to put on fat it will pay to keep them on the richer diet up to 120 to 140 lb . 
But if they are lean and from a good grading strain , the cheaper ration can be introduced between 100 and 120 lb . 
He emphasises , however , that these figures are only guides : every producer must find out for himself which is the best stage to make the change for his pigs , type of ration , and environment . 
THERE is a growing school of thought today which wonders if there is any advantage in making a feeding change at all . 
It is felt that the continued feeding of sow-and-weaner meal through to slaughter may improve grading , speed throughput and lower feed conversion to an extent that will more than offset the extra cost of the ration . 
Even if this is not so , there are other advantages . 
The use of only one ration in the piggery speeds the work of feeding and simplifies milling and mixing . 
It also ensures against any possible growth check which might occur if the change over to a finishing diet is made too early . 
Whether it is economic or not will be determined only on the farm , but it is of interest to note the results of a comparative experiment carried out by the Norfolk School of Agriculture : 
These figures show a distinct grading improvement which , in view of the fact that there was no increase of premium payments for length , must be attributable to the feeding . 
In addition , baconers on the single ration reached their slaughter weight five days earlier in summer and 10 days earlier in winter than pigs on two-stage feeding . 
In terms of hard cash , this is calculated to bring in £20 to £25 more profit from every hundred baconers sold , without taking into consideration the streamlining of labour and the simplification of mixing and storage . 
This illustrates how wrong it is to attach too much importance to the price of a ration . 
It is the feeding value which counts . 
A food costing £30 a ton may be dearer to buy than one at £28 a ton but it can be cheaper to feed . 
If the diet is £2 a ton more expensive because it has a higher nutrient value and its use improves the feed conversion rate of a baconer from 3.5 to 3.2 , the cost of feeding that baconer is reduced by 3s. 1d . 
For this reason , trials carried out on the farm to determine the best method for feeding bacon pigs should not be evaluated in terms of feed conversion ratios , as they are in official progeny tests . 
The best measure of efficiency is the food cost per pound of liveweight gain related , of course , to the grading results obtained . 
1,050 galls. a cow from a hungry soil by PHILIP BOLAM 
SIMPLICITY is the hallmark of David Stevens ' farming at Lechlade , Gloucester . 
The whole business is geared to low-cost milk production from over 100 Friesian cows , with maximum use of grass , on 260 acres of Thames gravel . 
Such a soil would have tempted many farmers to escape from the cow 's tail and the seven-day week — perhaps to adopt some intensive arable cropping along with fat lamb production . 
But Mr. Stevens feels there are advantages in being a specialist . 
Getting the most out of well-manured grassland , keeping up to date with new techniques and managing a large dairy herd profitably is a skilled occupation , especially with the profusion of new ideas from the research stations and the farming press . 
The herd is milked in a six-stall six-unit Hosier bail , which in summer is drawn round the grass fields and in winter stands on concrete near the loose housing and the self-feed silage clamps . 
When the bail is in the field an electric fence forms a collecting pen and a simple " electric dog " speeds milking when concentrate feeding is low . 
Many dairy farmers in this situation are content with moderate yields , relying on low costs to provide a good margin of profit . 
But Mr. Stevens ' had a true average of 1,050 gallons per cow consuming 1.9 lb. cereal and concentrates for each gallon of milk produced . 
Gross sales per man now stand at £5,000 a year . 
The labour force consists of two cowmen on contract who also tend all the replacement stock , and a tractor driver who acts as relief milker . 
Critics of the system suggest that the herd should be halved and milked in two separate six-stall three-unit bails with one cowman responsible for each . 
While partly agreeing with this , Mr. Stevens argues that managerial decisions would increase with twice the milking machinery and two sets of grazing to arrange , without much financial advantage . 
He believes that if concentrates are cubed , the cows learn to eat quickly — after all , they masticate food at leisure . 
Rolled barley is used to balance grass or silage . 
Space was short in the bail , so in-churn milking was discarded in favour of an overhead pipeline which carries the milk to churns at one end . 
A quick and simple method of washing up is based on the immersion cleaning technique developed by the NIRD , using a 3 per cent caustic soda solution . 
No daily dismantling is necessary . 
The caustic soda , stored in a twenty-gallon container in the bail loft , flows by gravity into the milking system . 
The teat-cups are inverted in racks and each set is filled in turn from the overhead milkline . 
Odd pipes and utensils are soaked in a special container . 
The solution is sucked back into the storage tank before the next milking , followed by a rinse with cold water . 
The cost of converting to this system is low , and the only running expense is 10s. worth of caustic soda and water softener each month . 
THE grazing and silage-making programme revolves round Italian ryegrass , kale for autumn grazing and timothy-meadow fescue-white clover leys , together with an acreage of permanent grass . 
No grass is conserved as hay . 
Leys are ploughed for Italian ryegrass , which in its second summer is heavily coated with farmyard manure and ploughed for kale . 
The leys are reseeded direct the following spring . 
This is a hungry soil and fertilisers cost £8 an acre . 
Only two types are used — nitrogen and a concentrated compound . 
Recording the treatment and output of each grass field was started last year , so the present programme might well be modified when sufficient information has been accumulated . 
There are few hedges or walls . 
Most fields are about 10 acres , separated by one or two strands of barbed wire . 
These are now being replaced by sprung fencing or the electrified lines of high tensile wire with posts every 50 yards . 
Strip grazing with back fences is preferred to paddock grazing . 
Cows are given two fresh feeds of grass a day , usually in two different fields . 
The more grass they can be persuaded to eat , the more milk they give . 
Any grass left uneaten is allowed to grow on and cut for silage . 
Herd health is good with culling at 15 per cent . 
Milk fever and hypo-magnesaemia are not common but foul-in-the-foot and arthritis can be troublesome . 
A phosphorous deficiency was noticed recently and now a high phosphorous supplement is added to the food . 
The covered yards built eight years ago and open self-feed silage clamps cost about £50 a cow . 
The two clamps , just outside the covered yard , each hold 375 tons and provide a total feeding face of 64 ft . 
Walls of railway sleepers assist filling , but when the silage has settled the top sleepers are removed and the clamps covered with thin polythene sheeting . 
The area of concrete between the loose housing and the silos has been kept to the minimum , but slurry disposal was a problem , as buildings and the surrounding land are on the same level . 
The muck from the silo face and concrete yard is collected by an adapted buckrake and pushed over a concrete ramp by reversing the tractor . 
It lies untouched till midsummer , by which time it is sufficiently solid to be handled with a muck loader . 
Lying in a low rainfall area , spring reseeding and summer kale sowings were always a risk . 
In 1959 irrigation was introduced and now it is possible to cover 3 1/2 acres a day with 1 in. of rain — although moving the pipes makes heavy demands on the labour force . 
Like many others , Mr. Stevens feels his farming must be geared to meet sterner times . 
He may have some answers when he returns from his visit to New Zealand . 
FINE CROPS FROM SMALL FARMS 
THE three most powerful impressions I received on my recent tour of the French countryside — in particular some of the recent " agricultural trouble spots " — were 1 . 
The absence of any farm labourers , or farmers , for that matter , under 35 or so years of age ; 2 . 
The comparatively high standard of crop husbandry ; and 3 . 
The comparatively small size of most farming units , herds and flocks . 
Farmers ' Ordinary By RALPH WHITLOCK Is the N.F.U . 
minding its own business ? 
MANY FARMERS MUST BE RESERVING JUDGMENT ON THE NEW SEEDS COMPANY , N.F.U . 
Seeds Industries , Ltd . 
It is , says the National Farmers ' Union , a private company . 
One half of the 250,000 £1 shares will be taken up by merchants and one half by the N.F.U . 
Development Company . 
To the layman , however , it looks uncommonly like the N.F.U . 
entering another business on the familiar lines of " vertical integration " which is first cousin to " take-over . " 
The whole affair is puzzling . 
The aims of the new company are described as being : 
To develop production and promote the use of the best quality strains of British grown and bred herbage seeds , and to encourage the most efficient grassland management . 
To assist British merchants and farmers by providing a consistent range of mixtures for specified purposes chosen on the best technical advice . 
To provide for farmers , through the N.F.U . 
brand , a guarantee of authenticity and quality of the seeds used . 
To provide for improved buying , cleaning , processing , packing and distribution facilities to consumers at home and abroad . 
To bring about , by means of an adequate stock carry-over policy , greater price stability and constant supplies . 
An industry on its toes 
ALL these are laudable objects , but is any one of them new ? 
If ever an industry was on its toes and eager to provide good service , I would have said it was the seed industry . 
The N.F.U . 
reports that " three firms have agreed to participate as main processors and distributors of the branded seed . " 
All are firms of the highest repute . 
But what of the many others not taking part ? 
Are their present services so inadequate that it is necessary for the N.F.U . 
to step in and improve matters ? 
What triggered off the move was a report , published last year , on the marketing of herbage seed . 
The N.F.U . 
was rightly concerned with ensuring that British seeds had at least an equal share in their home market with foreign seeds , and there is much , though not everything , to be said for a standardised product . 
Not everyone , though , would deplore " internecine competition " among seed firms . 
Some of us still believe that competition is healthy and conducive to efficiency . 
Perhaps the Union 's new venture will prove its value . 
If there has to be " vertical integration , " it is probably better for farmers that the N.F.U . 
should be in control . 
Yet I , for one , am a little suspicious of this latest child . 
Dairy shorthorn decline 
MR . 
G. N. GOULD , chairman of the Hampshire Cattle Breeders ' Society , Ltd. , states that at the society 's A.I. centre , demand for Friesian services continues to increase at the expense of the dairy shorthorn . 
Aberdeen-Angus are now suffering , too , for farmers who once crossed them with Friesians for beef are now breeding pure Friesians . 
Dairy shorthorns have also been making disappointing figures in the sale rings . 
Recently , of two shorthorn herds dispersed at Reading , one averaged £60 4s. , and the other only £43 4s. 11d . 
The highest price bid in both sales was 66 guineas . 
In the same week a Guernsey dispersal sale averaged £91 3s. 9d. ( this was for Overbury Farms , at Beckford Court , Overbury , Gloucestershire ) , 43 animals commanding three-figure prices . 
At Nun House , Winsford , Cheshire , Mr. T. Lea Sherwin 's Stanthorne herd of Friesians averaged £118 17s. 2d . 
This present unpopularity of the shorthorn is , I feel sure , a passing phase which will be corrected . 
Consider the longevity of the breed . 
Theale Maud 12th , a dairy shorthorn cow owned by Mr. Hugh N. Haldin , of Court Lodge , Hinxhill , near Ashford , Kent , has achieved a new breed record by producing a total of 201,196lb. of milk ( with a butterfat yield of 7,371lb. ) in 12 lactations . 
At 16 years old she is still giving 35lb. of milk a day . 
Another thing I notice is that although entries for the Royal Dairy Show in October are down by 35 , the dairy shorthorn entry has risen by two . 
EQUIPMENT FOR THE FARM By GEORGE JARRETT Tele-Bins bring bulk transport and storage within reach of even the small farmer 's pocket 
BULK handling with its indisputable economies in time , cost and labour is something which must be exercising the minds of many people not only in farming and its ancillary industries , but also in industry . 
The tonnage which is moved on our farms must be colossal . 
In corn growing bulk handling is taking the place of sacks , while with fertilisers and lime , too , the tendency is towards the elimination of unnecessary handling . 
Here are the figures of some of the estimated losses which bulk handling can save . 
It has been suggested that in the building trade something like 30 per cent . 
of the sand purchased is lost in various ways while in heaps on building sites . 
In farming something like 2 1/2 per cent . 
of fertilisers may be left in the corners and creases of fertiliser bags after emptying . 
The same may apply to feedingstuffs . 
The solution to some of the problems is reasonable in price . 
Bulk handling so often makes one think of the latest bulk transporters costing around £5,000 , but I am now going to describe a movable container priced at about £118 . 
Making its debut on the agricultural and industrial market is the Amalgamated Limestone Corporation 's Tele-Bin , made of light sheet steel with frames made of Stewart and Lloyd 's new rectangular hollow section . 
The weight of the complete container is 5cwt . 
The bins measure 6ft. x 4ft. x 6ft. high , and have a capacity of 90cub. ft. — enough for two tons of fertiliser or feedingstuff or three tons of basic slag , lime , cement or any dry materials . 
More and more uses are being found for these portable bulk containers on estates and large farms . 
Agricultural merchants , too , are fast becoming enthusiasts . 
The railway is interested in the bins for sugar-beet . 
Overseas , they are suitable for many goods from coffee beans to any small root crop . 
The advantage of this system is that , having started with one bin , one can buy more to enlarge one 's activities . 
For instance , the small farmer can buy but one in which to store feedingstuffs . 
Transporting the bins is simple with a flat-bottomed lorry or one with drop sides , either of which can be easily converted into a bulk carrier , with three bins fitting on to a 14ft. lorry . 
To obtain the maximum economy , one will need two sets of bins — one in transit and the other on the farm being loaded and unloaded . 
This brings the capital outlay up to about £690 for six bins , which is a tremendous saving on specialised bulk transport vehicles . 
These bins taper downwards to the outlet and are set in a frame having four telescopic legs on a 9in. diameter round base . 
The legs are attached to a gatelike frame which closes inward when not in use ; for instance , when the bin is lying on the lorry bed . 
On the lorry 's arrival at its destination in farmyard or in field , these frames pull outwards whilst the telescopic legs are adjusted to rest on the ground . 
The width between the legs is 8ft. , and the height can be adjusted according to the height of the lorry by 18in. ( so that an ordinary box manure distributor can fit underneath the bins to be loaded when fertiliser is being handled ) . 
For wider distributors a shute can be supplied which can be clipped on to the guide rails of the bin aperture . 
The bin covers are metal with a rubber ring inside , to keep out moisture and wet , enabling the fully loaded bin to be left in the open , protected against the weather and vermin . 
This protection from vermin is most important , particularly with feedingstuffs , and by itself can lead to big economies . 
The discharge aperture consists of two large flat plates which slide in opposite directions ( the handle is flat ) , giving positive opening and closing . 
These plates can be locked so that the contents can not be touched except by removing the entire unit . 
Each of the four legs contains a simple screw jack with a thrust bearing which is operated telescopically inside of two tubes by a ratchet spanner : this enables the driver of a transporting vehicle to put off a fully loaded bin . 
Taking on the bin is a one-man job , too . 
For use with fertilisers the bins can be painted with anti-corrosive paint at extra cost . 
In any case , they can be painted for the sake of protection or in order to look smarter . 
This A.L.C. Tele-Bin was introduced at the Bath and West Show . 
I feel that it will bring the advantages of bulk handling to many who have previously been deterred by the thought of having to spend £4,000 , because one can literally start off with spending only about £118 for one of these bins ex works . 
Already considerable interest has been shown by county councils , which are eyeing the bins for road gritting ; many small builders should save money by buying the bins for holding sand , cement and similar materials ; farmers can use the bulk handling for fertilisers and for strategically located feedingstuff stores over the farm ; grain from the combines can be shot straight into the bins , later to be collected by the lorry and taken to dryer or mill . 
The bins can be insured , too . 
The Amalgamated Limestone Corporation ( Dept . 
B ) , Chipping Sodbury , Gloucestershire , will give more information or will arrange demonstrations . 
Farmers ' Ordinary By RALPH WHITLOCK What goes on at Pirbright 
WHENEVER an epidemic of foot-and-mouth disease erupts to spread despondency and send imprudent farmers running in panic to grab insurance policies , one of the by-products is sure to be a rash of letters to the Press demanding what Pirbright is up to . 
For at this Surrey village a team of scientists devote their lives , in the Research Institute for Animal Virus Diseases , to putting salt on the tails of the elusive microbe troublemakers . 
So painfully slow is this tricky operation that the impatience of the farmer , prejudiced by the fact that he has just lost the herd on which he has spent 20 years , can be appreciated . 
Especially as scientists , immersed in their world of embryo chicks and suckling mice and being , in any case , by training ultra-cautious , are seldom very good at publicity . 
Papers such as Purification of the Virus of Foot-and-Mouth Disease by Fluorocarbon Treatment and its Dissociation from Neutralising Antibody , one of the latest Pirbright publications , do not assist public relations , valuable though they are from other points of view . 
The reasons for slaughtering 
ONCE every five years , however , the Institute issues a report . 
Here is the latest , just out , a modest half-crown 's worth in which Mr. S. W. Cheveley , chairman of the governing body , and his scientific henchmen tell us how they have been using their time and our money since 1956 . 
One thing we learn is that , far from shutting their eyes to the existence of vaccines in extensive use in other parts of the world , as is often alleged , Pirbright actually manufactures these vaccines . 
In fact , two years ago the demand for them became so great that the staff very nearly arrived at the point of stopping research work in order to concentrate on manufacture . 
Fortunately the Wellcome Foundation stepped in and took over this side of the work , leaving the scientists to get on with their proper job . 
Why then are we without vaccines to stop the drain on our flocks and herds ? 
In the first place , although a major epidemic is a spectacular disaster , the general casualties resulting from the disease in Britain still amount to less than 0.5 per cent . 
This is lower than would probably be achieved by a vaccination policy , and we would be paying the penalty of allowing the disease to become endemic . 
The other reason for sticking to the slaughter policy is that there are seven known strains of foot-and-mouth disease virus . 
Without the drastic measure of slaughter we might find ourselves invaded by one of the Asian or African viruses from which we are so far mercifully free . 