The city had withdrawn into itself

And left at last the country to the country;

When between whirls of snow not come to lie

And whirls of foliage not yet laid, there drove

A stranger to our yard, who looked the city,

Yet did in country fashion in that there

He sat and waited till he drew us out

A-buttoning coats to ask him who he was.

He proved to be the city come again

To look for something it had left behind

And could not do without and keep its Christmas.

He asked if I would sell my Christmas trees;

My woodsññthe young fir balsams like a place

Where houses all are churches and have spires.

I hadnít thought of them as Christmas Trees.

I doubt if I was tempted for a moment

To sell them off their feet to go in cars

And leave the slope behind the house all bare,

Where the sun shines now no warmer than the moon.

Iíd hate to have them know it if I was.

Yet more Iíd hate to hold my trees except

As others hold theirs or refuse for them,

Beyond the time of profitable growth,

The trial by market everything must come to.

I dallied so much with the thought of selling.

12
Then whether from mistaken courtesy

And fear of seeming short of speech, or whether

From hope of hearing good of what was mine,

I said, ìThere arenít enough to be worth while.î

ìI could soon tell how many they would cut,

You let me look them over.î

 

ìYou could look.

But donít expect Iím going to let you have them.î

Pasture they spring in, some in clumps too close

That lop each other of boughs, but not a few

Quite solitary and having equal boughs

All round and round. The latter he nodded ìYesî to,

Or paused to say beneath some lovelier one,

With a buyerís moderation, ìThat would do.î

I thought so too, but wasnít there to say so.

We climbed the pasture on the south, crossed over,

And came down on the north.

 

He said, ìA thousand.î

 

ìA thousand Christmas trees!ññat what apiece?î

 

He felt some need of softening that to me:

ìA thousand trees would come to thirty dollars.î

 

Then I was certain I had never meant

To let him have them. Never show surprise!

But thirty dollars seemed so small beside

The extent of pasture I should strip, three cents

(For that was all they figured out apiece),

Three cents so small beside the dollar friends

13
I should be writing to within the hour

Would pay in cities for good trees like those,

Regular vestry-trees whole Sunday Schools

Could hang enough on to pick off enough.

A thousand Christmas trees I didnít know I had!

Worth three cents more to give away than sell,

As may be shown by a simple calculation.

Too bad I couldnít lay one in a letter.

I canít help wishing I could send you one,

In wishing you herewith a Merry Christmas.